ENSG00000181649	 This gene is located in a cluster of imprinted genes on chromosome 11p15.5, which is considered to be an important tumor suppressor gene region. Alterations in this region may be associated with the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, and lung, ovarian, and breast cancer. This gene has been shown to be imprinted, with preferential expression from the maternal allele in placenta and liver. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000077721	 The modification of proteins with ubiquitin is an important cellular mechanism for targeting abnormal or short-lived proteins for degradation. Ubiquitination involves at least three classes of enzymes: ubiquitin-activating enzymes, or E1s, ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, or E2s, and ubiquitin-protein ligases, or E3s. This gene encodes a member of the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme family. This enzyme is required for post-replicative DNA damage repair. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene and they encode distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000057593	 This gene encodes coagulation factor VII which is a vitamin K-dependent factor essential for hemostasis. This factor circulates in the blood in a zymogen form, and is converted to an active form by either factor IXa, factor Xa, factor XIIa, or thrombin by minor proteolysis. Upon activation of the factor VII, a heavy chain containing a catalytic domain and a light chain containing 2 EGF-like domains are generated, and two chains are held together by a disulfide bond. In the presence of factor III and calcium ions, the activated factor then further activates the coagulation cascade by converting factor IX to factor IXa and/or factor X to factor Xa. Defects in this gene can cause coagulopathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000049540	 This gene encodes a protein that is one of the two components of elastic fibers. The encoded protein is rich in hydrophobic amino acids such as glycine and proline, which form mobile hydrophobic regions bounded by crosslinks between lysine residues. Deletions and mutations in this gene are associated with supravalvular aortic stenosis (SVAS) and autosomal dominant cutis laxa. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126337	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. This type I hair keratin is an acidic protein which heterodimerizes with type II keratins to form hair and nails. The type I hair keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21 and have the same direction of transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114062	 This gene encodes an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase, part of the ubiquitin protein degradation system. This imprinted gene is maternally expressed in brain and biallelically expressed in other tissues. Maternally inherited deletion of this gene causes Angelman Syndrome, characterized by severe motor and intellectual retardation, ataxia, hypotonia, epilepsy, absence of speech, and characteristic facies. The protein also interacts with the E6 protein of human papillomavirus types 16 and 18, resulting in ubiquitination and proteolysis of tumor protein p53. Alternative splicing of this gene results in three transcript variants encoding three isoforms with different N-termini. Additional transcript variants have been described, but their full length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113273	 Arylsulfatase B encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfatase family. The arylsulfatase B homodimer hydrolyzes sulfate groups of N-Acetyl-D-galactosamine, chondriotin sulfate, and dermatan sulfate. The protein is targetted to the lysozyme. Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder resulting from a deficiency of arylsulfatase B. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123700	 Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where they participate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassium channel. The encoded protein, which has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell, probably participates in establishing action potential waveform and excitability of neuronal and muscle tissues. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Andersen syndrome, which is characterized by periodic paralysis, cardiac arrhythmias, and dysmorphic features. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182533	 This gene encodes a caveolin family member, which functions as a component of the caveolae plasma membranes found in most cell types. Caveolin proteins are proposed to be scaffolding proteins for organizing and concentrating certain caveolin-interacting molecules. Mutations identified in this gene lead to interference with protein oligomerization or intra-cellular routing, disrupting caveolae formation and resulting in Limb-Girdle muscular dystrophy type-1C (LGMD-1C), hyperCKemia or rippling muscle disease (RMD). Alternative splicing has been identified for this locus, with inclusion or exclusion of a differentially spliced intron. In addition, transcripts utilize multiple polyA sites and contain two potential translation initiation sites. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134684	 Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by their cognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids with nucleotide triplets contained in tRNAs, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are thought to be among the first proteins that appeared in evolution. Tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase belongs to the class I tRNA synthetase family. Cytokine activities have also been observed for the human tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase, after it is split into two parts, an N-terminal fragment that harbors the catalytic site and a C-terminal fragment found only in the mammalian enzyme. The N-terminal fragment is an interleukin-8-like cytokine, whereas the released C-terminal fragment is an EMAP II-like cytokine. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186395	 This gene encodes a member of the type I (acidic) cytokeratin family, which belongs to the superfamily of intermediate filament (IF) proteins. Keratins are heteropolymeric structural proteins which form the intermediate filament. These filaments, along with actin microfilaments and microtubules, compose the cytoskeleton of epithelial cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with epidermolytic hyperkeratosis. This gene is located within a cluster of keratin family members on chromosome 17q21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147224	 This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the phosphoribosylation of ribose 5-phosphate to 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate, which is necessary for purine metabolism and nucleotide biosynthesis. Defects in this gene are a cause of phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase superactivity, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease X-linked recessive type 5 and Arts Syndrome. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000171401	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. The keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into cytokeratins and hair keratins. Most of the type I cytokeratins consist of acidic proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains. This type I cytokeratin is paired with keratin 4 and expressed in the suprabasal layers of non-cornified stratified epithelia. Mutations in this gene and keratin 4 have been associated with the autosomal dominant disorder White Sponge Nevus. The type I cytokeratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q21.2. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants; however, not all variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131095	 This gene encodes one of the major intermediate filament proteins of mature astrocytes. It is used as a marker to distinguish astrocytes from other glial cells during development. Mutations in this gene cause Alexander disease, a rare disorder of astrocytes in the central nervous system. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000164871	 This gene encodes several androgen-dependent, epididymis-specific secretory proteins. The specific functions of these proteins have not been determined, but they are thought to be involved in sperm maturation. Some of the isoforms contain regions of similarity to beta-defensins, a family of antimicrobial peptides. The gene is located on chromosome 8p23 near the defensin gene cluster. Alternative splicing of this gene results in seven transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Two different N-terminal and five different C-terminal protein sequences are encoded by the splice variants. Two additional variants have been described, but their full length sequences have not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170454	 This gene is a member of the type II keratin family clustered on the long arm of chromosome 12. Type I and type II keratins heteropolymerize to form intermediate-sized filaments in the cytoplasm of epithelial cells. This gene is expressed in the companion layer, upper germinative matrix region of the hair follicle, and medulla of the hair shaft. The encoded protein plays an essential role in hair and nail formation. Variations in this gene have been associated with the hair disorders pseudofolliculitis barbae (PFB) and loose anagen hair syndrome (LAHS). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000151276	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase homologue (MAGUK) family. MAGUK proteins participate in the assembly of multiprotein complexes on the inner surface of the plasma membrane at regions of cell-cell contact. The product of this gene may play a role as scaffolding protein at cell-cell junctions. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000061938	 This gene encodes a tyrosine kinase that binds Cdc42Hs in its GTP-bound form and inhibits both the intrinsic and GTPase-activating protein (GAP)-stimulated GTPase activity of Cdc42Hs. This binding is mediated by a unique sequence of 47 amino acids C-terminal to an SH3 domain. The protein may be involved in a regulatory mechanism that sustains the GTP-bound active form of Cdc42Hs and which is directly linked to a tyrosine phosphorylation signal transduction pathway. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified from this gene, but the full-length nature of only two transcript variants has been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000064309	 This gene encodes a cell surface receptor that is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein contains three fibronectin type III domains and five immunoglobulin-like C2-type domains. This protein is a member of a cell-surface receptor complex that mediates cell-cell interactions between muscle precursor cells and positively regulates myogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000064835	 This gene encodes a member of the POU family of transcription factors that regulate mammalian development. The protein regulates expression of several genes involved in pituitary development and hormone expression. Mutations in this genes result in combined pituitary hormone deficiency. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163635	 The autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCA) are a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive degeneration of the cerebellum, brain stem and spinal cord. Clinically, ADCA has been divided into three groups: ADCA types I-III. ADCAI is genetically heterogeneous, with five genetic loci, designated spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6, being assigned to five different chromosomes. ADCAII, which always presents with retinal degeneration (SCA7), and ADCAIII often referred to as the 'pure' cerebellar syndrome (SCA5), are most likely homogeneous disorders. Several SCA genes have been cloned and shown to contain CAG repeats in their coding regions. ADCA is caused by the expansion of the CAG repeats, producing an elongated polyglutamine tract in the corresponding protein. The expanded repeats are variable in size and unstable, usually increasing in size when transmitted to successive generations. This locus has been mapped to chromosome 3, and it has been determined that the diseased allele associated with spinocerebellar ataxia-7 contains 38-130 CAG repeats (near the N-terminus), compared to 7-17 in the normal allele. The encoded protein is a component of the SPT3/TAF9/GCN5 acetyltransferase (STAGA) and TBP-free TAF-containing (TFTC) chromatin remodeling complexes, and it thus plays a role in transcriptional regulation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000077942	 Fibulin 1 is a secreted glycoprotein that becomes incorporated into a fibrillar extracellular matrix. Calcium-binding is apparently required to mediate its binding to laminin and nidogen. It mediates platelet adhesion via binding fibrinogen. Four splice variants which differ in the 3' end have been identified. Each variant encodes a different isoform, but no functional distinctions have been identified among the four variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000181523	 This gene encodes one of several enzymes involved in the lysosomal degradation of heparan sulfate. Mutations in this gene are associated with Sanfilippo syndrome A, one type of the lysosomal storage disease mucopolysaccaridosis III, which results from impaired degradation of heparan sulfate. Transcripts of varying sizes have been reported but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133028	 Mammalian cytochrome c oxidase (COX) catalyzes the transfer of reducing equivalents from cytochrome c to molecular oxygen and pumps protons across the inner mitochondrial membrane. In yeast, 2 related COX assembly genes, SCO1 and SCO2 (synthesis of cytochrome c oxidase), enable subunits 1 and 2 to be incorporated into the holoprotein. This gene is the human homolog to the yeast SCO1 gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000156136	  Deoxycytidine kinase (DCK) is required for the phosphorylation of several deoxyribonucleosides and their nucleoside analogs.  Deficiency of DCK is associated with resistance to antiviral and anticancer chemotherapeutic agents. Conversely, increased deoxycytidine kinase activity is associated with increased activation of these compounds to cytotoxic nucleoside triphosphate derivatives.  DCK is clinically important because of its relationship to drug resistance and sensitivity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182054	 Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matrix, and two NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, one of which is mitochondrial and the other predominantly cytosolic. Each NADP(+)-dependent isozyme is a homodimer. The protein encoded by this gene is the NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase found in the mitochondria. It plays a role in intermediary metabolism and energy production. This protein may tightly associate or interact with the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101306	 This gene encodes a myosin light chain kinase, a calcium/calmodulin dependent enzyme, that is exclusively expressed in adult skeletal muscle. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162676	 This gene encodes a nuclear zinc finger protein that functions as a transcriptional repressor. This protein plays a role in diverse developmental contexts, including hematopoiesis and oncogenesis. It functions as part of a complex along with other cofactors to control histone modifications that lead to silencing of the target gene promoters. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant severe congenital neutropenia, and also dominant nonimmune chronic idiopathic neutropenia of adults, which are heterogeneous hematopoietic disorders that cause predispositions to leukemias and infections. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196811	 The mammalian muscle-type acetylcholine receptor is a transmembrane pentameric glycoprotein with two alpha subunits, one beta, one delta, and one epsilon (in adult skeletal muscle) or gamma (in fetal and denervated muscle) subunit. This gene, which encodes the gamma subunit, is expressed prior to the thirty-third week of gestation in humans. The gamma subunit of the acetylcholine receptor plays a role in neuromuscular organogenesis and ligand binding and disruption of gamma subunit expression prevents the correct localization of the receptor in cell membranes. Mutations in this gene cause Escobar syndrome and a lethal form of multiple pterygium syndrome. Muscle-type acetylcholine receptor is the major antigen in the autoimmune disease myasthenia gravis.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000130749	 This gene encodes a member of a family of CCCH (C-x8-C-x5-C-x3-H type) zinc finger domain-containing proteins. These zinc finger domains, which coordinate zinc finger binding and are characterized by three cysteine residues and one histidine residue, are nucleic acid-binding. Other family members are known to function in post-transcriptional regulation. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000214265	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AC090983.13, AC090602.16 and AC124312.5. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. On Sep 29, 2009 this sequence version replaced gi:218156316. 
ENSG00000204301	 This gene encodes a member of the Notch family. Members of this Type 1 transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics including an extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain consisting of multiple, different domain types. Notch family members play a role in a variety of developmental processes by controlling cell fate decisions. The Notch signaling network is an evolutionarily conserved intercellular signaling pathway which regulates interactions between physically adjacent cells. In Drosophilia, notch interaction with its cell-bound ligands (delta, serrate) establishes an intercellular signaling pathway that plays a key role in development. Homologues of the notch-ligands have also been identified in human, but precise interactions between these ligands and the human notch homologues remain to be determined. This protein is cleaved in the trans-Golgi network, and presented on the cell surface as a heterodimer. This protein functions as a receptor for membrane bound ligands, and may play a role in vascular, renal and hepatic development. This gene may be associated with susceptibility to schizophrenia in a small portion of cases. An alternative splice variant has been described but its biological nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000117013	 The protein encoded by this gene forms a potassium channel that is thought to play a critical role in the regulation of neuronal excitability, particularly in sensory cells of the cochlea. The current generated by this channel is inhibited by M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and activated by retigabine, a novel anti-convulsant drug. The encoded protein can form a homomultimeric potassium channel or possibly a heteromultimeric channel in association with the protein encoded by the KCNQ3 gene. Defects in this gene are a cause of nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness type 2 (DFNA2), an autosomal dominant form of progressive hearing loss. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143294	 This gene encodes a protein that may play a role in pre-mRNA splicing. Chromosomal translocations (X;1)(p11;q21) that result in fusion of this gene to TFE3 (GeneID 7030) have been associated with papillary renal cell carcinoma. A PRCC-TFE3 fusion protein is expressed in affected carcinomas and is likely associated with altered gene transactivation. This fusion protein has also been associated with disruption of the cell cycle.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000125779	 This gene encodes a protein belonging to the pantothenate kinase family and is the only member of that family to be expressed in mitochondria. Pantothenate kinase is a key regulatory enzyme in the biosynthesis of coenzyme A (CoA) in bacteria and mammalian cells. It catalyzes the first committed step in the universal biosynthetic pathway leading to CoA and is itself subject to regulation through feedback inhibition by acyl CoA species. Mutations in this gene are associated with HARP syndrome and pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN), formerly Hallervorden-Spatz syndrome. Alternative splicing, involving the use of alternate first exons, results in multiple transcripts encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113971	 This gene encodes a protein containing a coiled-coil (CC) domain, a tubulin-tyrosine ligase (TTL) domain, and a tetratrico peptide repeat (TPR) domain. The encoded protein interacts with nephrocystin, it is required for normal ciliary development, and it functions in renal tubular development. Mutations in this gene are associated with nephronophthisis type 3, and also with renal-hepatic-pancreatic dysplasia, and Meckel syndrome type 7. Naturally occurring read-through transcripts exist between this gene and the downstream ACAD11 (acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family, member 11) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000128710	 This gene is a member of the Abd-B homeobox family and encodes a protein with a homeobox DNA-binding domain. It is included in a cluster of homeobox D genes located on chromosome 2. The encoded nuclear protein functions as a sequence-specific transcription factor that is expressed in the developing limb buds and is involved in differentiation and limb development. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Wilm's tumor and congenital vertical talus (also known as 'rocker-bottom foot' deformity or congenital convex pes valgus) and/or a foot deformity resembling that seen in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101292	 Prokineticins are secreted proteins that can promote angiogenesis and induce strong gastrointestinal smooth muscle contraction. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and G protein-coupled receptor for prokineticins. The encoded protein is similar in sequence to GPR73, another G protein-coupled receptor for prokineticins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137106	 This gene encodes an enzyme with hydroxypyruvate reductase, glyoxylate reductase, and D-glycerate dehydrogenase enzymatic activities. The enzyme has widespread tissue expression and has a role in metabolism. Type II hyperoxaluria is caused by mutations in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131398	 The Shaker gene family of Drosophila encodes components of voltage-gated potassium channels and is comprised of four subfamilies. Based on sequence similarity, this gene is similar to one of these subfamilies, namely the Shaw subfamily. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the delayed rectifier class of channel proteins and is an integral membrane protein that mediates the voltage-dependent potassium ion permeability of excitable membranes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128714	 This gene belongs to the homeobox family of genes. The homeobox genes encode a highly conserved family of transcription factors that play an important role in morphogenesis in all multicellular organisms. Mammals possess four similar homeobox gene clusters, HOXA, HOXB, HOXC and HOXD, located on different chromosomes, consisting of 9 to 11 genes arranged in tandem. This gene is one of several homeobox HOXD genes located in a cluster on chromosome 2. Deletions that remove the entire HOXD gene cluster or the 5' end of this cluster have been associated with severe limb and genital abnormalities. Mutations in this particular gene cause synpolydactyly. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000139531	 Sulfite oxidase is a homodimeric protein localized to the intermembrane space of mitochondria. Each subunit contains a heme domain and a molybdopterin-binding domain. The enzyme catalyzes the oxidation of sulfite to sulfate, the final reaction in the oxidative degradation of the sulfur amino acids cysteine and methionine. Sulfite oxidase deficiency results in neurological abnormalities which are often fatal at an early age. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding identical proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102879	 This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been defined on chromosome 16. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000172987	 This gene encodes a heparanase enzyme. The encoded protein is a endoglycosidase that degrades heparin sulfate proteoglycans located on the extracellular matrix and cell surface. This protein may be involved in biological processes involving remodeling of the extracellular matrix including angiogenesis and tumor progression. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000075275	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the flamingo subfamily, part of the cadherin superfamily. The flamingo subfamily consists of nonclassic-type cadherins; a subpopulation that does not interact with catenins. The flamingo cadherins are located at the plasma membrane and have nine cadherin domains, seven epidermal growth factor-like repeats and two laminin A G-type repeats in their ectodomain. They also have seven transmembrane domains, a characteristic unique to this subfamily. It is postulated that these proteins are receptors involved in contact-mediated communication, with cadherin domains acting as homophilic binding regions and the EGF-like domains involved in cell adhesion and receptor-ligand interactions. This particular member is a developmentally regulated, neural-specific gene which plays an unspecified role in early embryogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173157	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ADAMTS family of zinc-dependent proteases. The encoded protein has a signal peptide that is cleaved to release the mature peptide, which is secreted and found in the extracellular matrix. This protein may be involved in tissue remodeling. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000088035	 This gene encodes a member of the ALG6/ALG8 glucosyltransferase family. The encoded protein catalyzes the addition of the first glucose residue to the growing lipid-linked oligosaccharide precursor of N-linked glycosylation. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital disorders of glycosylation type Ic. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175899	 Alpha-2-macroglobulin is a protease inhibitor and cytokine transporter. It inhibits many proteases, including trypsin, thrombin and collagenase. A2M is implicated in Alzheimer disease (AD) due to its ability to mediate the clearance and degradation of A-beta, the major component of beta-amyloid deposits. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196628	 This gene encodes transcription factor 4, a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor. The encoded protein recognizes an Ephrussi-box ('E-box') binding site ('CANNTG') - a motif first identified in immunoglobulin enhancers. This gene is broadly expressed, and may play an important role in nervous system development. Defects in this gene are a cause of Pitt-Hopkins syndrome. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different proteins have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000119699	 This gene encodes a member of the TGF-beta family of proteins. The encoded protein is secreted and is involved in embryogenesis and cell differentiation. Defects in this gene are a cause of familial arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia 1. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000017427	 The protein encoded by this gene is similar to insulin in function and structure and is a member of a family of proteins involved in mediating growth and development. The encoded protein is processed from a precursor, bound by a specific receptor, and secreted. Defects in this gene are a cause of insulin-like growth factor I deficiency. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000169896	 This gene encodes the integrin alpha M chain. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain. This I-domain containing alpha integrin combines with the beta 2 chain (ITGB2) to form a leukocyte-specific integrin referred to as macrophage receptor 1 ('Mac-1'), or inactivated-C3b (iC3b) receptor 3 ('CR3'). The alpha M beta 2 integrin is important in the adherence of neutrophils and monocytes to stimulated endothelium, and also in the phagocytosis of complement coated particles. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000248144	 This gene encodes class I alcohol dehydrogenase, gamma subunit, which is a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this enzyme family metabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, other aliphatic alcohols, hydroxysteroids, and lipid peroxidation products. Class I alcohol dehydrogenase, consisting of several homo- and heterodimers of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits, exhibits high activity for ethanol oxidation and plays a major role in ethanol catabolism. Three genes encoding alpha, beta and gamma subunits are tandemly organized in a genomic segment as a gene cluster. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132256	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. The protein forms homo-oligomers via the coilel-coil region and localizes to cytoplasmic bodies. It appears to function as a E3 ubiquitin-ligase and ubiqutinates itself to regulate its subcellular localization. It may play a role in retroviral restriction. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000170881	 The protein encoded by this gene is a multi-membrane spanning protein containing a RING-H2 finger. This protein is located in the endoplasmic reticulum, and has been shown to possess ubiquitin ligase activity. This gene was found to be interrupted by a t(3:8) translocation in a family with hereditary renal and non-medulary thyroid cancer. Studies of the Drosophila counterpart suggested that this protein may interact with tumor suppressor protein VHL, as well as with  COPS5/JAB1, a protein responsible for the degradation of tumor suppressor CDKN1B/P27KIP. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000067842	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type primary ion transport ATPases characterized by the formation of an aspartyl phosphate intermediate during the reaction cycle. These enzymes remove bivalent calcium ions from eukaryotic cells against very large concentration gradients and play a critical role in intracellular calcium homeostasis. The mammalian plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoforms are encoded by at least four separate genes and the diversity of these enzymes is further increased by alternative splicing of transcripts. The expression of different isoforms and splice variants is regulated in a developmental, tissue- and cell type-specific manner, suggesting that these pumps are functionally adapted to the physiological needs of particular cells and tissues. This gene encodes the plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 3. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165119	 This gene belongs to the subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are RNA binding proteins and they complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA). These proteins are associated with pre-mRNAs in the nucleus and appear to influence pre-mRNA processing and other aspects of mRNA metabolism and transport. While all of the hnRNPs are present in the nucleus, some seem to shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The hnRNP proteins have distinct nucleic acid binding properties. The protein encoded by this gene is located in the nucleoplasm and has three repeats of KH domains that binds to RNAs. It is distinct among other hnRNP proteins in its binding preference; it binds tenaciously to poly(C). This protein is also thought to have a role during cell cycle progession. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene, however, not all of them are fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000079215	 This gene encodes a member of a member of a high affinity glutamate transporter family. Mutations in this gene are associated with episodic ataxia, Type 6. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000124788	 The autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCA) are a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive degeneration of the cerebellum, brain stem and spinal cord. Clinically, ADCA has been divided into three groups: ADCA types I-III. ADCAI is genetically heterogeneous, with five genetic loci, designated spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6, being assigned to five different chromosomes. ADCAII, which always presents with retinal degeneration (SCA7), and ADCAIII often referred to as the `pure' cerebellar syndrome (SCA5), are most likely homogeneous disorders. Several SCA genes have been cloned and shown to contain CAG repeats in their coding regions. ADCA is caused by the expansion of the CAG repeats, producing an elongated polyglutamine tract in the corresponding protein. The expanded repeats are variable in size and unstable, usually increasing in size when transmitted to successive generations. The function of the ataxins is not known. This locus has been mapped to chromosome 6, and it has been determined that the diseased allele contains 41-81 CAG repeats, compared to 6-39 in the normal allele, and is associated with spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). At least two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000156475	 The product of this gene belongs to the phosphatase 2 regulatory subunit B family. Protein phosphatase 2 is one of the four major Ser/Thr phosphatases, and it is implicated in the negative control of cell growth and division. It consists of a common heteromeric core enzyme, which is composed of a catalytic subunit and a constant regulatory subunit, that associates with a variety of regulatory subunits. The B regulatory subunit might modulate substrate selectivity and catalytic activity. This gene encodes a beta isoform of the regulatory subunit B55 subfamily. Defects in this gene cause autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxia 12 (SCA12), a disease caused by degeneration of the cerebellum, sometimes involving the brainstem and spinal cord, and in resulting in poor coordination of speech and body movements. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, which encode different isoforms, have been identified for this gene. The 5' UTR of some of these variants includes a CAG trinucleotide repeat sequence (7-28 copies) that can be expanded to 66-78 copies in cases of SCA12. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143382	 This gene is a member of ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs)-like gene family and encodes a protein with protein with seven thrombospondin type 1 repeats. The thrombospondin type 1 repeat domain is found in many proteins with diverse biological functions including cellular adhesion, angiogenesis, and patterning of the developing nervous system. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101224	 CDC25B is a member of the CDC25 family of phosphatases. CDC25B activates the cyclin dependent kinase CDC2 by removing two phosphate groups and it is required for entry into mitosis. CDC25B shuttles between the nucleus and the cytoplasm due to nuclear localization and nuclear export signals. The protein is nuclear in the M and G1 phases of the cell cycle and moves to the cytoplasm during S and G2. CDC25B has oncogenic properties, although its role in tumor formation has not been determined. Multiple transcript variants for this gene exist. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112210	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the small GTPase superfamily, Rab family. It may be involved in small GTPase mediated signal transduction and intracellular protein transportation. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135697	 Vitamin A metabolism is important for vital processes such as vision, embryonic development, cell differentiation, and membrane and skin protection. The protein encoded by this gene is a key enzyme in beta-carotene metabolism to vitamin A. It catalyzes the oxidative cleavage of beta,beta-carotene into two retinal molecules. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000040608	 This gene encodes the receptor for reticulon 4, oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein and myelin-associated glycoprotein. This receptor mediates axonal growth inhibition and may play a role in regulating axonal regeneration and plasticity in the adult central nervous system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175110	 Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that does not seem to have a counterpart in prokaryotic and fungal-mitochondrial ribosomes. This gene lies telomeric of and is transcribed in the opposite direction from the forkhead box L2 gene. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome Xq. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000015532	 The protein encoded by this gene is an isoform of xylosyltransferase, which belongs to a family of glycosyltransferases. This enzyme transfers xylose from UDP-xylose to specific serine residues of the core protein and initiates the biosynthesis of glycosaminoglycan chains in proteoglycans including chondroitin sulfate, heparan sulfate, heparin and dermatan sulfate. The enzyme activity, which is increased in scleroderma patients, is a diagnostic marker for the determination of sclerotic activity in systemic sclerosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160050	 The product of this gene localizes to centrosomes and basal bodies. It interacts and colocalizes with several proteins associated with Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135925	 The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. It is strongly expressed in the cell lines of promyelocytic leukemia and Burkitt's lymphoma. In addition, it and another family member, the WNT6 gene, are strongly coexpressed in colorectal cancer cell lines. The gene overexpression may play key roles in carcinogenesis through activation of the WNT-beta-catenin-TCF signaling pathway. This gene and the WNT6 gene are clustered in the chromosome 2q35 region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196586	 This gene encodes a protein involved intracellular vesicle and organelle transport, especially in the hair cell of the inner ear. Mutations in this gene have been found in patients with non-syndromic autosomal dominant and recessive hearing loss. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133135	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane protein that localizes to the endocytic pathway. This protein contains a RING zinc-finger motif and has been shown to possess E3 ubiquitin ligase activity. Expression of this gene in retrovirally transduced T cell hybridoma significantly inhibits activation-induced IL2 and IL4 cytokine production. Induced expression of this gene was observed in anergic CD4(+) T cells, which suggested a role in the induction of anergic phenotype. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175556	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a RING finger domain, a motif present in a variety of functionally distinct proteins and known to be involved in protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been suggested, but their full length natures are not clear. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187325	 Initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II requires the activities of more than 70 polypeptides. The protein that coordinates these activities is transcription factor IID (TFIID), which binds to the core promoter to position the polymerase properly, serves as the scaffold for assembly of the remainder of the transcription complex, and acts as a channel for regulatory signals. TFIID is composed of the TATA-binding protein (TBP) and a group of evolutionarily conserved proteins known as TBP-associated factors or TAFs. TAFs may participate in basal transcription, serve as coactivators, function in promoter recognition or modify general transcription factors (GTFs) to facilitate complex assembly and transcription initiation. This gene encodes a protein that is similar to one of the small subunits of TFIID, TBP-associated factor 9, and is also a subunit of TFIID. TAF9 and TAF9b share some functions but also have distinct roles in the transcriptional regulatory process. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000181433	 This gene belongs to a class of genes that are activated in tumors. These genes are expressed in tumors of different histologic types but not in normal tissues, except for spermatogenic cells and, for some, placenta. The proteins encoded by these genes appear to be strictly tumor specific, and hence may be excellent sources of antigens for cancer immunotherapy. This gene is expressed in sarcomas. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000142748	 Ficolins are a group of proteins which consist of a collagen-like domain and a fibrinogen-like domain. In human serum, there are two types of ficolins, both of which have lectin activity. The protein encoded by this gene is a thermolabile beta-2-macroglycoprotein found in all human serum and is a member of the ficolin/opsonin p35 lectin family. The protein, which was initially identified based on its reactivity with sera from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, has been shown to have a calcium-independent lectin activity. The protein can activate the complement pathway in association with MASPs and sMAP, thereby aiding in host defense through the activation of the lectin pathway. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and two variants, each encoding a distinct isoform, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000038295	 This gene encodes an astacin-like, zinc-dependent, metalloprotease that belongs to the peptidase M12A family. This protease processes procollagen C-propeptides, such as chordin, pro-biglycan and pro-lysyl oxidase. Studies in mice suggest that this gene plays multiple roles in the development of mammalian heart, and is essential for the formation of the interventricular septum. Allelic variants of this gene are associated with atrial septal defect type 6. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000176358	 This gene is a member of the tachykinin family of neurotransmitter-encoding genes. Tachykinin proteins are cleaved into small, secreted peptides that activate members of a family of receptor proteins. The products of this gene preferentially activate tachykinin receptor 1, and are thought to regulate peripheral endocrine and paracrine functions including blood pressure, the immune system, and endocrine gland secretion. The products of this gene lack a dibasic cleavage site found in other tachykinin proteins. Consequently, the nature of the cleavage products generated in vivo remains to be determined. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000121380	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. Overexpression of this gene has been shown to induce apoptosis in cells. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding two distinct isoforms have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000178919	 This intronless gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors, which is characterized by a distinct forkhead domain. This gene functions as a thyroid transcription factor which likely plays a crucial role in thyroid morphogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital hypothyroidism and cleft palate with thyroid dysgenesis. The map localization of this gene suggests it may also be a candidate gene for squamous cell epithelioma and hereditary sensory neuropathy type I. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188153	 This gene encodes one of the six subunits of type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes. Mutations in this gene are associated with X-linked Alport syndrome, also known as hereditary nephritis. Like the other members of the type IV collagen gene family, this gene is organized in a head-to-head conformation with another type IV collagen gene so that each gene pair shares a common promoter. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000103569	 The aquaporins are a family of water-selective membrane channels. The protein encoded by this gene allows passage of a wide variety of noncharged solutes. It stimulates urea transport and osmotic water permeability; there are contradicting reports about its role in providing glycerol permeability. The encoded protein may also play a role in specialized leukocyte functions such as immunological response and bactericidal activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000083307	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor that can act as a homodimer or as a heterodimer with either GRHL1 or GRHL3. Defects in this gene are a cause of non-syndromic sensorineural deafness autosomal dominant type 28 (DFNA28).[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000101266	 Casein kinase II is a serine/threonine protein kinase that phosphorylates acidic proteins such as casein. The kinase exists as a tetramer and is composed of an alpha, an alpha-prime, and two beta subunits. The alpha subunits contain the catalytic activity while the beta subunits undergo autophosphorylation. The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit. While this gene is found on chromosome 20, a related transcribed pseudogene is found on chromosome 11. Three transcript variants encoding two different proteins have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000180549	 The protein encoded by this gene is a Golgi stack membrane protein that is involved in the creation of sialyl-Lewis X antigens. The encoded protein can direct the synthesis of the E-selectin-binding sialyl-Lewis X moiety. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140368	 The protein encoded by this gene binds to the cytoplasmic tail of CD2, an effector of T cell activation and adhesion, negatively affecting CD2-triggered T cell activation. The encoded protein appears to be a scaffold protein and a regulator of the actin cytoskeleton. It has also been shown to bind ABL1, PTPN18, WAS, CD2AP, and PTPN12. Mutations in this gene are a cause of PAPA syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000117400	 In 1990 an oncogene, v-mpl, was identified from the murine myeloproliferative leukemia virus that was capable of immortalizing bone marrow hematopoietic cells from different lineages. In 1992 the human homologue, named, c-mpl, was cloned. Sequence data revealed that c-mpl encoded a protein that was homologous with members of the hematopoietic receptor superfamily. Presence of anti-sense oligodeoxynucleotides of c-mpl inhibited megakaryocyte colony formation. The ligand for c-mpl, thrombopoietin, was cloned in 1994. Thrombopoietin was shown to be the major regulator of megakaryocytopoiesis and platelet formation. The protein encoded by the c-mpl gene, CD110, is a 635 amino acid transmembrane domain, with two extracellular cytokine receptor domains and two intracellular cytokine receptor box motifs . TPO-R deficient mice were severely thrombocytopenic, emphasizing the important role of CD110 and thrombopoietin in megakaryocyte and platelet formation. Upon binding of thrombopoietin CD110 is dimerized and the JAK family of non-receptor tyrosine kinases, as well as the STAT family, the MAPK family, the adaptor protein Shc and the receptors themselves become tyrosine phosphorylated. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104722	 Neurofilaments are type IV intermediate filament heteropolymers composed of light, medium, and heavy chains. Neurofilaments comprise the axoskeleton and functionally maintain neuronal caliber. They may also play a role in intracellular transport to axons and dendrites. This gene encodes the medium neurofilament protein. This protein is commonly used as a biomarker of neuronal damage. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000239533	 There are two copies of this pseudogene within the P1 palindrome on chromosome Y. This record represents the more centromeric copy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000077092	 This gene encodes retinoic acid receptor beta, a member of the thyroid-steroid hormone receptor superfamily of nuclear transcriptional regulators. This receptor localizes to the cytoplasm and to subnuclear compartments. It binds retinoic acid, the biologically active form of vitamin A which mediates cellular signalling in embryonic morphogenesis, cell growth and differentiation. It is thought that this protein limits growth of many cell types by regulating gene expression. The gene was first identified in a hepatocellular carcinoma where it flanks a hepatitis B virus integration site. The gene expresses at least two transcript variants; one additional transcript has been described, but its full length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000149534	 The allergic response involves the binding of allergen to receptor-bound IgE followed by cell activation and the release of mediators responsible for the manifestations of allergy. The IgE-receptor, a tetramer composed of an alpha, beta, and 2 disulfide-linked gamma chains, is found on the surface of mast cells and basophils. This gene encodes the beta subunit of the high affinity IgE receptor which is a member of the membrane-spanning 4A gene family. Members of this nascent protein family are characterized by common structural features and similar intron/exon splice boundaries and display unique expression patterns among hematopoietic cells and nonlymphoid tissues. This family member is localized to 11q12, among a cluster of family members.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000092199	 This gene belongs to the subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are RNA binding proteins and they complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA). These proteins are associated with pre-mRNAs in the nucleus and appear to influence pre-mRNA processing and other aspects of mRNA metabolism and transport. While all of the hnRNPs are present in the nucleus, some seem to shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The hnRNP proteins have distinct nucleic acid binding properties. The protein encoded by this gene can act as a tetramer and is involved in the assembly of 40S hnRNP particles. Multiple transcript variants encoding at least two different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169255	 This gene is a member of the beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase (beta3GalT) gene family. This family encodes type II membrane-bound glycoproteins with diverse enzymatic functions using different donor substrates (UDP-galactose and UDP-N-acetylglucosamine) and different acceptor sugars (N-acetylglucosamine, galactose, N-acetylgalactosamine). The beta3GalT genes are distantly related to the Drosophila Brainiac gene and have the protein coding sequence contained in a single exon. The beta3GalT proteins also contain conserved sequences not found in the beta4GalT or alpha3GalT proteins. The carbohydrate chains synthesized by these enzymes are designated as type 1, whereas beta4GalT enzymes synthesize type 2 carbohydrate chains. The ratio of type 1:type 2 chains changes during embryogenesis. By sequence similarity, the beta3GalT genes fall into at least two groups: beta3GalT4 and 4 other beta3GalT genes (beta3GalT1-3, beta3GalT5). The encoded protein of this gene does not use N-acetylglucosamine as an acceptor sugar at all. Multiple transcript variants that are alternatively spliced in the 5' UTR have been described; they all encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000053747	 Laminins are basement membrane components thought to mediate the attachment, migration and organization of cells into tissues during embryonic development by interacting with other extracellular matrix components. The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha-3 subunit of laminin 5, which is a complex glycoprotein composed of three subunits (alpha, beta, and gamma). Laminin 5 is thought to be involved in cell adhesion, signal transduction and differentiation of keratinocytes. Mutations in this gene have been identified as the cause of Herlitz type junctional epidermolysis bullosa. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108370	 This gene encodes a member of the RGS family of GTPase activating proteins that function in various signaling pathways by accelerating the deactivation of G proteins. This protein is anchored to photoreceptor membranes in retinal cells and deactivates G proteins in the rod and cone phototransduction cascades. Mutations in this gene result in bradyopsia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000084676	 The protein encoded by this gene acts as a transcriptional coactivator for steroid and nuclear hormone receptors. It is a member of the p160/steroid receptor coactivator (SRC) family and like other family members has histone acetyltransferase activity and contains a nuclear localization signal, as well as bHLH and PAS domains. The product of this gene binds nuclear receptors directly and stimulates the transcriptional activities in a hormone-dependent fashion. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112339	 This gene encodes a member of the GTP-binding elongation factor family. It is expressed in multiple tissues with the highest expression in heart and skeletal muscle. The intergenic region of this gene and the MYB gene has been identified to be a quantitative trait locus (QTL) controlling fetal hemoglobin level, and this region influnces erythrocyte, platelet, and monocyte counts as well as erythrocyte volume and hemoglobin content. DNA polymorphisms at this region associate with fetal hemoglobin levels and pain crises in sickle cell disease. A single nucleotide polymorphism in exon 1 of this gene is significantly associated with severity in beta-thalassemia/Hemoglobin E. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000128052	 Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a major growth factor for endothelial cells. This gene encodes one of the two receptors of the VEGF. This receptor, known as kinase insert domain receptor, is a type III receptor tyrosine kinase. It functions as the main mediator of VEGF-induced endothelial proliferation, survival, migration, tubular morphogenesis and sprouting. The signalling and trafficking of this receptor are regulated by multiple factors, including Rab GTPase, P2Y purine nucleotide receptor, integrin alphaVbeta3, T-cell protein tyrosine phosphatase, etc.. Mutations of this gene are implicated in infantile capillary hemangiomas. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000157168	 The protein encoded by this gene was originally identified as a 44-kD glycoprotein that interacts with the NEU/ERBB2 receptor tyrosine kinase to increase its phosphorylation on tyrosine residues. This protein is a signaling protein that mediates cell-cell interactions and plays critical roles in the growth and development of multiple organ systems. It is known that an extraordinary variety of different isoforms are produced from this gene through alternative promoter usage and splicing. These isoforms are tissue-specifically expressed and differ significantly in their structure, and thereby these isoforms are classified into types I, II, III, IV, V and VI. The gene dysregulation has been linked to diseases such as cancer, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (BPD). [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000174016	 Antibodies against the protein encoded by this gene were found only in plasma from cancer patients. While it may be a target for immunotherapy, the function of this gene is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000145428	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AC020703.7 and AC106865.4. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000173275	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein that likely functions as a transcription factor. The protein includes an N-terminal SCAN domain, and seven C2H2-type zinc finger motifs. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000203933	 The protein encoded by this gene is predicted to be a type I membrane protein, however, its exact function is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000139133	 This gene encodes a membrane-associated protein that adds the third glucose residue to the lipid-linked oligosaccharide precursor for N-linked glycosylation. That is, it transfers the terminal glucose from dolichyl phosphate glucose (Dol-P-Glc) onto the lipid-linked oligosaccharide Glc2Man9GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol. The rat protein homolog was shown to specifically modulate the gating function of the rat neuronal ether-a-go-go (EAG) potassium ion channel. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000147162	 This gene encodes a glycosyltransferase that catalyzes the addition of a single N-acetylglucosamine in O-glycosidic linkage to serine or threonine residues. Since both phosphorylation and glycosylation compete for similar serine or threonine residues, the two processes may compete for sites, or they may alter the substrate specificity of nearby sites by steric or electrostatic effects. The protein contains multiple tetratricopeptide repeats that are required for optimal recognition of substrates. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000147155	 The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum. It is a high affinity binding protein for the antiischemic phenylalkylamine Ca2+ antagonist [3H]emopamil and the photoaffinity label [3H]azidopamil. It is similar to sigma receptors and may be a member of a superfamily of high affinity drug-binding proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum of different tissues. This protein shares structural features with bacterial and eukaryontic drug transporting proteins. It has four putative transmembrane segments and contains two conserved glutamate residues which may be involved in the transport of cationic amphiphilics. Another prominent feature of this protein is its high content of aromatic amino acid residues (>23%) in its transmembrane segments. These aromatic amino acid residues have been suggested to be involved in the drug transport by the P-glycoprotein. Mutations in this gene cause Chondrodysplasia punctata 2 (CDPX2; also known as Conradi-Hunermann syndrome). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134323	 This gene is a member of the MYC family and encodes a protein with a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) domain. This protein is located in the nucleus and must dimerize with another bHLH protein in order to bind DNA. Amplification of this gene is associated with a variety of tumors, most notably neuroblastomas. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000179295	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains two tandem Src homology-2 domains, which function as phospho-tyrosine binding domains and mediate the interaction of this PTP with its substrates. This PTP is widely expressed in most tissues and plays a regulatory role in various cell signaling events that are important for a diversity of cell functions, such as mitogenic activation, metabolic control, transcription regulation, and cell migration. Mutations in this gene are a cause of Noonan syndrome as well as acute myeloid leukemia. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000148400	 This gene encodes a member of the Notch family. Members of this Type 1 transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics including an extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain consisting of multiple, different domain types. Notch family members play a role in a variety of developmental processes by controlling cell fate decisions. The Notch signaling network is an evolutionarily conserved intercellular signaling pathway which regulates interactions between physically adjacent cells. In Drosophilia, notch interaction with its cell-bound ligands (delta, serrate) establishes an intercellular signaling pathway that plays a key role in development. Homologues of the notch-ligands have also been identified in human, but precise interactions between these ligands and the human notch homologues remain to be determined. This protein is cleaved in the trans-Golgi network, and presented on the cell surface as a heterodimer. This protein functions as a receptor for membrane bound ligands, and may play multiple roles during development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113916	 The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor and contains an N-terminal POZ domain. This protein acts as a sequence-specific repressor of transcription, and has been shown to modulate the transcription of START-dependent IL-4 responses of B cells. This protein can interact with a variety of POZ-containing proteins that function as transcription corepressors. This gene is found to be frequently translocated and hypermutated in diffuse large-cell lymphoma (DLCL), and may be involved in the pathogenesis of DLCL. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000184216	 This gene encodes the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1, one of two putative serine/threonine kinases that become associated with the interleukin-1 receptor (IL1R) upon stimulation. This gene is partially responsible for IL1-induced upregulation of the transcription factor NF-kappa B. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165841	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is known to metabolize many xenobiotics, including the anticonvulsive drug mephenytoin, omeprazole, diazepam and some barbiturates. Polymorphism within this gene is associated with variable ability to metabolize mephenytoin, known as the poor metabolizer and extensive metabolizer phenotypes. The gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113658	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the TGF-beta signaling pathway that results in an inhibition of the proliferation of hematopoietic progenitor cells. The encoded protein is activated by BMP type 1 receptor kinase. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000151929	 BAG proteins compete with Hip for binding to the Hsc70/Hsp70 ATPase domain and promote substrate release. All the BAG proteins have an approximately 45-amino acid BAG domain near the C terminus but differ markedly in their N-terminal regions. The protein encoded by this gene contains a WW domain in the N-terminal region and a BAG domain in the C-terminal region. The BAG domains of BAG1, BAG2, and BAG3 interact specifically with the Hsc70 ATPase domain in vitro and in mammalian cells. All 3 proteins bind with high affinity to the ATPase domain of Hsc70 and inhibit its chaperone activity in a Hip-repressible manner. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101997	 This gene encodes a protein containing a coiled-coil domain. The mouse orthologous protein has been shown to bind copines, which are calcium-dependent, membrane-binding proteins that may function in calcium signaling. Localization of the orthologous rat protein suggests that it may play a role in neuronal injury response. This human gene has been identified as a novel candidate gene for syndromic X-linked intellectual disability. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000198960	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL121883.17. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000198088	 This gene encodes a protein containing a domain found in nucleoporins which are glycoproteins found in nuclear pore complexes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000184083	 This gene encodes a potential transmembrane protein and lies in a region where mutations and deletions have been associated with intellectual disability and autism. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000147231	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL590808.6 and AL606833.8. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000130005	 The protein encoded by this gene is a methyltransferase that converts guanidoacetate to creatine, using S-adenosylmethionine as the methyl donor. Defects in this gene have been implicated in neurologic syndromes and muscular hypotonia, probably due to creatine deficiency and accumulation of guanidinoacetate in the brain of affected individuals. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 2 and 13. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000104936	 The protein encoded by this gene is a serine-threonine kinase that is closely related to other kinases that interact with members of the Rho family of small GTPases. Substrates for this enzyme include myogenin, the beta-subunit of the L-type calcium channels, and phospholemman. The 3' untranslated region of this gene contains 5-37 copies of a CTG trinucleotide repeat. Expansion of this unstable motif to 50-5,000 copies causes myotonic dystrophy type I, which increases in severity with increasing repeat element copy number. Repeat expansion is associated with condensation of local chromatin structure that disrupts the expression of genes in this region. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000121892	 The protein encoded by this gene binds to the cohesin complex and associates with chromatin through most of the cell cycle. The encoded protein may play a role in regulating sister chromatid cohesion during mitosis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000165195	 This gene encodes a protein required for synthesis of N-acetylglucosaminyl phosphatidylinositol (GlcNAc-PI), the first intermediate in the biosynthetic pathway of GPI anchor. The GPI anchor is a glycolipid found on many blood cells and which serves to anchor proteins to the cell surface. Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, an acquired hematologic disorder, has been shown to result from mutations in this gene. Alternate splice variants have been characterized. A related pseudogene is located on chromosome 12. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000154099	 The protein encoded by this gene is cilium-specific and is required for the stability of the ciliary architecture. It is involved in the regulation of microtubule-based cilia and actin-based brush border microvilli. Mutations in this gene are associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia-13. 
ENSG00000179520	 This gene encodes a vesicular glutamate transporter. The encoded protein transports the neurotransmitter glutamate into synaptic vesicles before it is released into the synaptic cleft. Mutations in this gene are the cause of autosomal-dominant nonsyndromic type 25 deafness. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000177628	 This gene encodes a lysosomal membrane protein that cleaves the beta-glucosidic linkage of glycosylceramide, an intermediate in glycolipid metabolism. Mutations in this gene cause Gaucher disease, a lysosomal storage disease characterized by an accumulation of glucocerebrosides. A related pseudogene is approximately 12 kb downstream of this gene on chromosome 1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000203867	 This gene encodes a protein that likely binds RNA. Mutations in this gene have been associated with familial dilated cardiomyopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000142910	 The protein encoded by this gene is similar in sequence to tubulointerstitial nephritis antigen, a secreted glycoprotein that is recognized by antibodies in some types of immune-related tubulointerstitial nephritis. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000184344	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) family and the TGF-beta superfamily. This group of proteins is characterized by a polybasic proteolytic processing site which is cleaved to produce a mature protein containing seven conserved cysteine residues. The members of this family are regulators of cell growth and differentiation in both embryonic and adult tissues. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119681	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of latent transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta binding proteins (LTBP), which are extracellular matrix proteins with multi-domain structure. This protein is the largest member of the LTBP family possessing unique regions and with most similarity to the fibrillins. It has thus been suggested that it may have multiple functions: as a member of the TGF-beta latent complex, as a structural component of microfibrils, and a role in cell adhesion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198691	 The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily. Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. This protein is a retina-specific ABC transporter with N-retinylidene-PE as a substrate. It is expressed exclusively in retina photoreceptor cells, indicating the gene product mediates transport of an essental molecule across the photoreceptor cell membrane. Mutations in this gene are found in patients diagnosed with Stargardt disease, a form of juvenile-onset macular degeneration. Mutations in this gene are also associated with retinitis pigmentosa-19, cone-rod dystrophy type 3, early-onset severe retinal dystrophy, fundus flavimaculatus, and macular degeneration age-related 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110799	 The glycoprotein encoded by this gene functions as both an antihemophilic factor carrier and a platelet-vessel wall mediator in the blood coagulation system.  It is crucial to the hemostasis process.  Mutations in this gene or deficiencies in this protein result in von Willebrand's disease. An unprocessed pseudogene has been found on chromosome 22. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112041	 This gene encodes a member of the tubby-like gene family (TULPs). Members of this family have been identified in plants, vertebrates, and invertebrates and encode proteins of unknown function. TULP proteins share a conserved C-terminal region of approximately 200 amino acid residues. Mutations in this gene may be associated with retinitis pigmentosa. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101850	 This gene encodes a protein that binds to heterotrimeric G proteins and is targeted to melanosomes in pigment cells. This protein is thought to be involved in intracellular signal transduction mechanisms. Mutations in this gene cause ocular albinism type 1, also referred to as Nettleship-Falls type ocular albinism, a severe visual disorder. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome Y. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000103150	 The product of this gene catalyzes the breakdown of malonyl-CoA to acetyl-CoA and carbon dioxide. Malonyl-CoA is an intermediate in fatty acid biosynthesis, and also inhibits the transport of fatty acyl CoAs into mitochondria. Consequently, the encoded protein acts to increase the rate of fatty acid oxidation. It is found in mitochondria, peroxisomes, and the cytoplasm. Mutations in this gene result in malonyl-CoA decarboyxlase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134183	 Transducin is a 3-subunit guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein) which stimulates the coupling of rhodopsin and cGMP-phoshodiesterase during visual impulses. The transducin alpha subunits in rods and cones are encoded by separate genes. This gene encodes the alpha subunit in cones. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000070756	 This gene encodes a poly(A) binding protein. The protein shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm and binds to the 3' poly(A) tail of eukaryotic messenger RNAs via RNA-recognition motifs. The binding of this protein to poly(A) promotes ribosome recruitment and translation initiation; it is also required for poly(A) shortening which is the first step in mRNA decay. The gene is part of a small gene family including three protein-coding genes and several pseudogenes.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000152217	 This gene encodes a protein which contains a several motifs including a ski homology region and a SET-binding region in addition to three nuclear localization signals. The encoded protein has been shown to bind the SET nuclear oncogene which is involved in DNA replication. Mutations in this gene are associated with Schinzel-Giedion midface retraction syndrome. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000180509	 The product of this gene belongs to the potassium channel KCNE family. Potassium ion channels are essential to many cellular functions and show a high degree of diversity, varying in their electrophysiologic and pharmacologic properties. This gene encodes a transmembrane protein known to associate with the product of the KVLQT1 gene to form the delayed rectifier potassium channel. Mutation in this gene are associated with both Jervell and Lange-Nielsen and Romano-Ward forms of long-QT syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000174483	 Mutations in this gene have been observed in patients with the major form (type 1) of Bardet-Biedl syndrome. The encoded protein may play a role in eye, limb, cardiac and reproductive system development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132518	 This gene encodes a retina-specific guanylate cyclase, which is a member of the membrane guanylyl cyclase family. Like other membrane guanylyl cyclases, this enzyme has a hydrophobic amino-terminal signal sequence followed by a large extracellular domain, a single membrane spanning domain, a kinase homology domain, and a guanylyl cyclase catalytic domain. In contrast to other membrane guanylyl cyclases, this enzyme is not activated by natriuretic peptides. Mutations in this gene result in Leber congenital amaurosis and cone-rod dystrophy-6 diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000102001	 This gene encodes a member of the alpha-1 subunit family; a protein in the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization and consist of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. The alpha-1 subunit has 24 transmembrane segments and forms the pore through which ions pass into the cell. There are multiple isoforms of each of the proteins in the complex, either encoded by different genes or the result of alternative splicing of transcripts. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Mutations in this gene have been shown to cause incomplete X-linked congential stationary night blindness type 2 (CSNB2). [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000128617	 This gene belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family, opsin subfamily. It encodes the blue cone pigment gene which is one of three types of cone photoreceptors responsible for normal color vision. Defects in this gene are the cause of tritan color blindness (tritanopia). Affected individuals lack blue and yellow sensory mechanisms while retaining those for red and green. Defective blue vision is characteristic. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000144191	 This gene encodes a member of the cyclic nucleotide-gated cation channel protein family which is required for normal vision and olfactory signal transduction. Mutations in this gene are associated with achromatopsia (rod monochromacy) and color blindness. Two alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000062038	 This gene is a classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily. The encoded protein is a calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoprotein comprised of five extracellular cadherin repeats, a transmembrane region and a highly conserved cytoplasmic tail. This gene is located in a six-cadherin cluster in a region on the long arm of chromosome 16 that is involved in loss of heterozygosity events in breast and prostate cancer. In addition, aberrant expression of this protein is observed in cervical adenocarcinomas. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congential hypotrichosis with juvenile macular dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173267	 This gene encodes a member of the synuclein family of proteins which are believed to be involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Mutations in this gene have also been associated with breast tumor development. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000167600	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. In rodents, the homologous protein has been shown to metabolize certain carcinogens; however, the specific function of the human protein has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101938	 This gene encodes an antagonist of bone morphogenetic protein 4. The encoded protein may play a role in topographic retinotectal projection and in the regulation of retinal angiogenesis in response to hypoxia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000069431	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein is thought to form ATP-sensitive potassium channels in cardiac, skeletal, and vascular and non-vascular smooth muscle. Protein structure suggests a role as the drug-binding channel-modulating subunit of the extra-pancreatic ATP-sensitive potassium channels. Mutations in this gene are associated with cardiomyopathy dilated type 1O. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000184905	 This gene encodes a member of the transcription elongation factor A (SII)-like (TCEAL) gene family. Members of this family contain TFA domains and may function as nuclear phosphoproteins that modulate transcription in a promoter context-dependent manner. Multiple family members are located on the X chromosome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000065057	 The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA N-glycosylase of the endonuclease III family. Like a similar protein in E. coli, the encoded protein has DNA glycosylase activity on DNA substrates containing oxidized pyrimidine residues and has apurinic/apyrimidinic lyase activity. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000116096	 This gene encodes an aldo-keto reductase that catalyzes the NADPH-dependent reduction of pteridine derivatives and is important in the biosynthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4). Mutations in this gene result in DOPA-responsive dystonia due to sepiaterin reductase deficiency. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198650	 This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial protein tyrosine aminotransferase which is present in the liver and catalyzes the conversion of L-tyrosine into p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate. Mutations in this gene cause tyrosinemia (type II, Richner-Hanhart syndrome), a disorder accompanied by major skin and corneal lesions, with possible mental retardation. A regulator gene for tyrosine aminotransferase is X-linked. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138079	 This gene encodes a type II membrane glycoprotein which is one of the components of the renal amino acid transporter which transports neutral and basic amino acids in the renal tubule and intestinal tract. Mutations and deletions in this gene are associated with cystinuria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112246	 SIM1 and SIM2 genes are Drosophila single-minded (sim) gene homologs.  SIM1 transcript was detected only in fetal kidney out of various adult and fetal tissues tested.  Since the sim gene plays an important role in Drosophila development and has peak levels of expression during the period of neurogenesis,it was proposed that the human SIM gene is a candidate for involvement in certain dysmorphic features (particularly the facial and skull characteristics), abnormalities of brain development, and/or mental retardation of Down syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138413	 Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matrix, and two NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, one of which is mitochondrial and the other predominantly cytosolic. Each NADP(+)-dependent isozyme is a homodimer. The protein encoded by this gene is the NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase found in the cytoplasm and peroxisomes. It contains the PTS-1 peroxisomal targeting signal sequence. The presence of this enzyme in peroxisomes suggests roles in the regeneration of NADPH for intraperoxisomal reductions, such as the conversion of 2, 4-dienoyl-CoAs to 3-enoyl-CoAs, as well as in peroxisomal reactions that consume 2-oxoglutarate, namely the alpha-hydroxylation of phytanic acid. The cytoplasmic enzyme serves a significant role in cytoplasmic NADPH production. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000181690	 Pleomorphic adenoma gene 1 encodes a zinc finger protein with 2 putative nuclear localization signals. PLAG1, which is developmentally regulated, has been shown to be consistently rearranged in pleomorphic adenomas of the salivary glands. PLAG1 is activated by the reciprocal chromosomal translocations involving 8q12 in a subset of salivary gland pleomorphic adenomas. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100836	 This gene encodes an abundant nuclear protein that binds with high affinity to nascent poly(A) tails. The protein is required for progressive and efficient polymerization of poly(A) tails at the 3' ends of eukaryotic transcripts and controls the size of the poly(A) tail to about 250 nt. At steady-state, this protein is localized in the nucleus whereas a different poly(A) binding protein is localized in the cytoplasm. This gene contains a GCG trinucleotide repeat at the 5' end of the coding region, and expansion of this repeat from the normal 6 copies to 8-13 copies leads to autosomal dominant oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) disease. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 19 and X. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the neighboring upstream BCL2-like 2 (BCL2L2) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000171403	 This gene encodes the type I keratin 9, an intermediate filament chain expressed only in the terminally differentiated epidermis of palms and soles. Mutations in this gene cause epidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126218	 This gene encodes the vitamin K-dependent coagulation factor X of the blood coagulation cascade. This factor undergoes multiple processing steps before its preproprotein is converted to a mature two-chain form by the excision of the tripeptide RKR. Two chains of the factor are held together by 1 or more disulfide bonds; the light chain contains 2 EGF-like domains, while the heavy chain contains the catalytic domain which is structurally homologous to those of the other hemostatic serine proteases. The mature factor is activated by the cleavage of the activation peptide by factor IXa (in the intrisic pathway), or by factor VIIa (in the extrinsic pathway). The activated factor then converts prothrombin to thrombin in the presence of factor Va, Ca+2, and phospholipid during blood clotting. Mutations of this gene result in factor X deficiency, a hemorrhagic condition of variable severity. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000172331	 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is a small molecule found at high concentrations in red blood cells where it binds to and decreases the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin. This gene encodes a multifunctional enzyme that catalyzes 2,3-DPG synthesis via its synthetase activity, and 2,3-DPG degradation via its phosphatase activity. The enzyme also has phosphoglycerate phosphomutase activity. Deficiency of this enzyme increases the affinity of cells for oxygen. Mutations in this gene result in hemolytic anemia. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000204983	 This gene encodes a trypsinogen, which is a member of the trypsin family of serine proteases. This enzyme is secreted by the pancreas and cleaved to its active form in the small intestine. It is active on peptide linkages involving the carboxyl group of lysine or arginine. Mutations in this gene are associated with hereditary pancreatitis. This gene and several other trypsinogen genes are localized to the T cell receptor beta locus on chromosome 7. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169032	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein kinase family, which acts as a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals. This protein kinase lies upstream of MAP kinases and stimulates the enzymatic activity of MAP kinases upon wide variety of extra- and intracellular signals. As an essential component of MAP kinase signal transduction pathway, this kinase is involved in many cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135111	 This gene is a member of a phylogenetically conserved family of genes that share a common DNA-binding domain, the T-box. T-box genes encode transcription factors involved in the regulation of developmental processes. This protein is a transcriptional repressor and is thought to play a role in the anterior/posterior axis of the tetrapod forelimb. Mutations in this gene cause ulnar-mammary syndrome, affecting limb, apocrine gland, tooth, hair, and genital development. Alternative splicing of this gene results in three transcript variants encoding different isoforms; however, the full length nature of one variant has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000152952	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound homodimeric enzyme that is localized to the cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. The enzyme (cofactors iron and ascorbate) catalyzes the hydroxylation of lysyl residues in collagen-like peptides. The resultant hydroxylysyl groups are attachment sites for carbohydrates in collagen and thus are critical for the stability of intermolecular crosslinks. Some patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIB have deficiencies in lysyl hydroxylase activity. Mutations in the coding region of this gene are associated with Bruck syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188910	 This gene is a member of the connexin gene family. The encoded protein is a component of gap junctions, which are composed of arrays of intercellular channels that provide a route for the diffusion of low molecular weight materials from cell to cell. Mutations in this gene can cause non-syndromic deafness or erythrokeratodermia variabilis, a skin disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000180176	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the conversion of tyrosine to dopamine. It is the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of catecholamines, hence plays a key role in the physiology of adrenergic neurons. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive Segawa syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106683	 There are approximately 40 known eukaryotic LIM proteins, so named for the LIM domains they contain. LIM domains are highly conserved cysteine-rich structures containing 2 zinc fingers. Although zinc fingers usually function by binding to DNA or RNA, the LIM motif probably mediates protein-protein interactions. LIM kinase-1 and LIM kinase-2 belong to a small subfamily with a unique combination of 2 N-terminal LIM motifs and a C-terminal protein kinase domain. LIMK1 is a serine/threonine kinase that regulates actin polymerization via phosphorylation and inactivation of the actin binding factor cofilin. This protein is ubiquitously expressed during development and plays a role in many cellular processes associated with cytoskeletal structure. This protein also stimulates axon growth and may play a role in brain development. LIMK1 hemizygosity is implicated in the impaired visuospatial constructive cognition of Williams syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000170275	 The protein encoded by this gene is similar to the chicken and mouse CRTAP genes. The encoded protein is a scaffolding protein that may influence the activity of at least one member of the cytohesin/ARNO family in response to specific cellular stimuli. Defects in this gene are associated with osteogenesis imperfecta, a connective tissue disorder characterized by bone fragility and low bone mass. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000117385	 This gene encodes an enzyme that is a member of the collagen prolyl hydroxylase family. These enzymes are localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and their activity is required for proper collagen synthesis and assembly. Mutations in this gene are associated with osteogenesis imperfecta type VIII. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. Other variants may exist, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000134812	 This gene is a member of the cobalamin transport protein family. It encodes a glycoprotein secreted by parietal cells of the gastric mucosa and is required for adequate absorption of vitamin B12. Vitamin B12 is necessary for erythrocyte maturation and mutations in this gene may lead to congenital pernicious anemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163132	 This gene encodes a member of the muscle segment homeobox gene family. The encoded protein functions as a transcriptional repressor during embryogenesis through interactions with components of the core transcription complex and other homeoproteins. It may also have roles in limb-pattern formation, craniofacial development, particularly odontogenesis, and tumor growth inhibition. Mutations in this gene, which was once known as homeobox 7, have been associated with nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate 5, Witkop syndrome, Wolf-Hirschom syndrome, and autosomoal dominant hypodontia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165533	 This gene encodes a protein that has been directly linked to Bardet-Biedl syndrome. The primary features of this syndrome include retinal dystrophy, obesity, polydactyly, renal abnormalities and learning disabilities. Experimentation in non-human eukaryotes suggests that this gene is expressed in ciliated cells and that it is involved in the formation of cilia. Alternate transcriptional splice variants have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000122735	 The inner- and outer-arm dyneins, which bridge between the doublet microtubules in axonemes, are the force-generating proteins responsible for the sliding movement in axonemes. The intermediate and light chains, thought to form the base of the dynein arm, help mediate attachment and may also participate in regulating dynein activity. This gene encodes an intermediate chain dynein, belonging to the large family of motor proteins. Mutations in this gene result in abnormal ciliary ultrastructure and function associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) and Kartagener syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120149	 This gene encodes a member of the muscle segment homeobox gene family. The encoded protein is a transcriptional repressor whose normal activity may establish a balance between survival and apoptosis of neural crest-derived cells required for proper craniofacial morphogenesis. The encoded protein may also have a role in promoting cell growth under certain conditions and may be an important target for the RAS signaling pathways. Mutations in this gene are associated with parietal foramina 1 and craniosynostosis type 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000150893	 This gene encodes a membrane protein that belongs to the FRAS1 family. This extracellular matrix protein is thought to be required for maintaining the integrity of the skin epithelium and the differentiated state of renal epithelia. The protein localizes to the basement membrane, forming a ternary complex that plays a role in epidermal-dermal interactions during morphogenetic processes. Mutations in this gene are associated with Fraser syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162434	 Janus kinase 1 (JAK1), is a member of a new class of protein-tyrosine kinases (PTK) characterized by the presence of a second phosphotransferase-related domain immediately N-terminal to the PTK domain. The second phosphotransferase domain bears all the hallmarks of a protein kinase, although its structure differs significantly from that of the PTK and threonine/serine kinase family members. JAK1 is a large, widely expressed membrane-associated phosphoprotein.  JAK1 is involved in the interferon-alpha/beta and -gamma signal transduction pathways. The reciprocal interdependence between JAK1 and TYK2 activities in the interferon-alpha pathway, and between JAK1 and JAK2 in the interferon-gamma pathway, may reflect a requirement for these kinases in the correct assembly of interferon receptor complexes. These kinases couple cytokine ligand binding to tyrosine phosphorylation of various known signaling proteins and of a unique family of transcription factors termed the signal transducers and activators of transcription, or STATs. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173599	 This gene encodes pyruvate carboxylase, which requires biotin and ATP to catalyse the carboxylation of pyruvate to oxaloacetate. The active enzyme is a homotetramer arranged in a tetrahedron which is located exclusively in the mitochondrial matrix. Pyruvate carboxylase is involved in gluconeogenesis, lipogenesis, insulin secretion and synthesis of the neurotransmitter glutamate. Mutations in this gene have been associated with pyruvate carboxylase deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants with different 5' UTRs, but encoding the same protein, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100365	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytosolic regulatory component of the superoxide-producing phagocyte NADPH-oxidase, a multicomponent enzyme system important for host defense. This protein is preferentially expressed in cells of myeloid lineage. It interacts primarily with neutrophil cytosolic factor 2 (NCF2/p67-phox) to form a complex with neutrophil cytosolic factor 1 (NCF1/p47-phox), which further interacts with the small G protein RAC1 and translocates to the membrane upon cell stimulation. This complex then activates flavocytochrome b, the membrane-integrated catalytic core of the enzyme system. The PX domain of this protein can bind phospholipid products of the PI(3) kinase, which suggests its role in PI(3) kinase-mediated signaling events. The phosphorylation of this protein was found to negatively regulate the enzyme activity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000174279	 This gene is located at the 5' end of the HOXD gene cluster on chromosome 2. The encoded protein is a homeobox transcription factor that is related to the protein encoded by the Drosophila even-skipped (eve) gene, a member of the pair-rule class of segmentation genes. A 117 kb microdeletion at the 5' end of the HOXD gene cluster, which includes this gene and the HOXD9-HOXD13 genes, causes synpolydactyly, a dominantly inherited disease resulting in limb malformation. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000181222	 This gene encodes the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II, the polymerase responsible for synthesizing messenger RNA in eukaryotes. The product of this gene contains a carboxy terminal domain composed of heptapeptide repeats that are essential for polymerase activity. These repeats contain serine and threonine residues that are phosphorylated in actively transcribing RNA polymerase. In addition, this subunit, in combination with several other polymerase subunits, forms the DNA binding domain of the polymerase, a groove in which the DNA template is transcribed into RNA. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196104	 This gene encodes a member of a novel family of calcium-binding proteoglycan proteins that contain thyroglobulin type-1 and Kazal-like domains. The encoded protein and may play a role in adult T-cell leukemia by inhibiting the activity of membrane-type matrix metalloproteinases. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000136044	 The protein encoded by this gene is one of two effectors of the small GTPase RAB5A/Rab5, which are involved in a signal transduction pathway. Both effectors contain an N-terminal Bin/Amphiphysin/Rvs (BAR) domain, a central pleckstrin homology (PH) domain, and a C-terminal phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domain, and they bind the Rab5 through the BAR domain. They are associated with endosomal membranes and can be translocated to the nucleus in response to the EGF stimulus. They interact with the NuRD/MeCP1 complex (nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase /methyl-CpG-binding protein 1 complex) and are required for efficient cell proliferation. A chromosomal aberration t(12;22)(q24.1;q13.3) involving this gene and the PSAP2 gene results in 22q13.3 deletion syndrome, also known as Phelan-McDermid syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000146674	 This gene is a member of the insulin-like growth factor binding protein (IGFBP) family and encodes a protein with an IGFBP domain and a thyroglobulin type-I domain. The protein forms a ternary complex with insulin-like growth factor acid-labile subunit (IGFALS) and either insulin-like growth factor (IGF) I or II. In this form, it circulates in the plasma, prolonging the half-life of IGFs and altering their interaction with cell surface receptors. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000205726	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic membrane-associated protein that indirectly coordinates endocytic membrane traffic with the actin assembly machinery. In addition, the encoded protein may regulate the formation of clathrin-coated vesicles and could be involved in synaptic vesicle recycling. This protein has been shown to interact with dynamin, CDC42, SNAP23, SNAP25, SPIN90, EPS15, EPN1, EPN2, and STN2. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, but the full-length nature of only two of them have been characterized so far. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197535	 This gene is one of three myosin V heavy-chain genes, belonging to the myosin gene superfamily. Myosin V is a class of actin-based motor proteins involved in cytoplasmic vesicle transport and anchorage, spindle-pole alignment and mRNA translocation. The protein encoded by this gene is abundant in melanocytes and nerve cells. Mutations in this gene cause Griscelli syndrome type-1 (GS1), Griscelli syndrome type-3 (GS3) and neuroectodermal melanolysosomal disease, or Elejalde disease. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been reported, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000188906	 This gene is a member of the leucine-rich repeat kinase family and encodes a protein with an ankryin repeat region, a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domain, a kinase domain, a DFG-like motif, a RAS domain, a GTPase domain, a MLK-like domain, and a WD40 domain. The protein is present largely in the cytoplasm but also associates with the mitochondrial outer membrane. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Parkinson disease-8. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000181481	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a RING finger domain, a motif present in a variety of functionally distinct proteins and known to be involved in protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions. This gene is located in a chromosomal region known to be frequently deleted in patients with neurofibromatosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100902	 The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highly ordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomal pathway. An essential function of a modified proteasome, the immunoproteasome, is the processing of class I MHC peptides. This gene encodes a member of the peptidase T1A family, that is a 20S core alpha subunit. A pseudogene has been identified on the Y chromosome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112077	 The protein encoded by this gene is erythrocyte-specific and is thought to be part of a membrane channel that transports ammonium and carbon dioxide across the blood cell membrane. The encoded protein appears to interact with Rh blood group antigens and Rh30 polypeptides. Defects in this gene are a cause of regulator type Rh-null hemolytic anemia (RHN), or Rh-deficiency syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000165704	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transferase, which catalyzes conversion of hypoxanthine to inosine monophosphate and guanine to guanosine monophosphate via transfer of the 5-phosphoribosyl group from 5-phosphoribosyl 1-pyrophosphate. This enzyme plays a central role in the generation of purine nucleotides through the purine salvage pathway. Mutations in this gene result in Lesch-Nyhan syndrome or gout.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000142185	 The protein encoded by this gene is a calcium-permeable cation channel that is regulated by free intracellular ADP-ribose. The encoded protein is activated by oxidative stress and confers susceptibility to cell death. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but their full-length nature is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168509	 The product of this gene is involved in iron metabolism. It may be a component of the signaling pathway which activates hepcidin or it may act as a modulator of hepcidin expression. It could also represent the cellular receptor for hepcidin. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. Defects in this gene are the cause of hemochromatosis type 2A, also called juvenile hemochromatosis (JH). JH is an early-onset autosomal recessive disorder due to severe iron overload resulting in hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism, hepatic fibrosis or cirrhosis and cardiomyopathy, occurring typically before age of 30. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000141837	 Voltage-dependent calcium channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells, and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, and gene expression. Calcium channels are multisubunit complexes composed of alpha-1, beta, alpha-2/delta, and gamma subunits. The channel activity is directed by the pore-forming alpha-1 subunit, whereas, the others act as auxiliary subunits regulating this activity. The distinctive properties of the calcium channel types are related primarily to the expression of a variety of alpha-1 isoforms, alpha-1A, B, C, D, E, and S. This gene encodes the alpha-1A subunit, which is predominantly expressed in neuronal tissue. Mutations in this gene are associated with 2 neurologic disorders, familial hemiplegic migraine and episodic ataxia 2. This gene also exhibits polymorphic variation due to (CAG)n-repeats. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. In one set of transcript variants, the (CAG)n-repeats occur in the 3' UTR, and are not associated with any disease. But in another set of variants, an insertion extends the coding region to include the (CAG)n-repeats which encode a polyglutamine tract. Expansion of the (CAG)n-repeats from the normal 4-16 to 21-28 in the coding region is associated with spinocerebellar ataxia 6. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000173976	 This gene encodes a homeodomain-containing protein that plays a role in eye development. Mutation of this gene causes age-related macular degeneration type 6, an eye disorder resulting in accumulations of protein and lipid beneath the retinal pigment epithelium and within the Bruch's membrane. Defects in this gene can also cause cone-rod dystrophy type 11, a disease characterized by the initial degeneration of cone photoreceptor cells and resulting in loss of color vision and visual acuity, followed by the degeneration of rod photoreceptor cells, which progresses to night blindness and the loss of peripheral vision. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186197	 This gene was identified by its association with ectodermal dysplasia, a genetic disorder characterized by defective development of hair, teeth, and eccrine sweat glands. The protein encoded by this gene is a death domain-containing protein, and is found to interact with EDAR, a death domain receptor known to be required for the development of hair, teeth and other ectodermal derivatives. This protein and EDAR are coexpressed in epithelial cells during the formation of hair follicles and teeth. Through its interaction with EDAR, this protein acts as an adaptor, and links the receptor to downstream signaling pathways. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163093	 This gene encodes a protein that has been directly linked to Bardet-Biedl syndrome. The primary features of this syndrome include retinal dystrophy, obesity, polydactyly, renal abnormalities and learning disabilities. Experimentation in non-human eukaryotes suggests that this gene is expressed in ciliated cells and that it is required for the formation of cilia. Alternate transcriptional splice variants have been observed but have not been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000095970	 This gene encodes a membrane protein that forms a receptor signaling complex with the TYRO protein tyrosine kinase binding protein. The encoded protein functions in immune response and may be involved in chronic inflammation by triggering the production of constitutive inflammatory cytokines. Defects in this gene are a cause of polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy (PLOSL). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]. 
ENSG00000182117	 This gene is a member of the H/ACA snoRNPs (small nucleolar ribonucleoproteins) gene family. snoRNPs are involved in various aspects of rRNA processing and modification and have been classified into two families: C/D and H/ACA. The H/ACA snoRNPs also include the DKC1, NOLA1 and NOLA2 proteins. These four H/ACA snoRNP proteins localize to the dense fibrillar components of nucleoli and to coiled (Cajal) bodies in the nucleus. Both 18S rRNA production and rRNA pseudouridylation are impaired if any one of the four proteins is depleted. The four H/ACA snoRNP proteins are also components of the telomerase complex. This gene encodes a protein related to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Nop10p. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105697	 The product encoded by this gene is involved in the maintenance of iron homeostasis, and it is necessary for the regulation of iron storage in macrophages, and for intestinal iron absorption. The preproprotein is post-translationally cleaved into mature peptides of 20, 22 and 25 amino acids, and these active peptides are rich in cysteines, which form intramolecular bonds that stabilize their beta-sheet structures. These peptides exhibit antimicrobial activity. Mutations in this gene cause hemochromatosis type 2B, also known as juvenile hemochromatosis, a disease caused by severe iron overload that results in cardiomyopathy, cirrhosis, and endocrine failure. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112299	 This gene encodes a member of the vanin family of proteins, which share extensive sequence similarity with each other, and also with biotinidase. The family includes secreted and membrane-associated proteins, a few of which have been reported to participate in hematopoietic cell trafficking. No biotinidase activity has been demonstrated for any of the vanin proteins, however, they possess pantetheinase activity, which may play a role in oxidative-stress response. This protein, like its mouse homolog, is likely a GPI-anchored cell surface molecule. The mouse protein is expressed by the perivascular thymic stromal cells and regulates migration of T-cell progenitors to the thymus. This gene lies in close proximity to, and in the same transcriptional orientation as, two other vanin genes on chromosome 6q23-q24. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000047648	 This gene encodes a member of the rhoGAP family of proteins which play a role in the regulation of actin polymerization at the plasma membrane during several cellular processes. This protein is thought to have two independent functions, one as a GTPase-activating protein with specificity for RhoA, and another as a cytoskeletal protein that promotes actin remodeling. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000078269	 The gene is a member of the inositol-polyphosphate 5-phosphatase family. The encoded protein interacts with the ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1, which causes translocation of the encoded protein to the plasma membrane where it inhibits clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000073464	 The CLCN family of voltage-dependent chloride channel genes comprises nine members (CLCN1-7, Ka and Kb) which demonstrate quite diverse functional characteristics while sharing significant sequence homology. Chloride channel 4 has an evolutionary conserved CpG island and is conserved in both mouse and hamster. This gene is mapped in close proximity to APXL (Apical protein Xenopus laevis-like) and OA1 (Ocular albinism type I), which are both located on the human X chromosome at band p22.3. The physiological role of chloride channel 4 remains unknown but may contribute to the pathogenesis of neuronal disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140326	 This gene encodes a protein that appears to play a role in nuclear envelope integrity, possibly related to microtubule attachments. Mutations in this gene cause congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type I, a disease resulting in morphological and functional abnormalities of erythropoiesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000149269	 This gene encodes a family member of serine/threonine p21-activating kinases, known as PAK proteins. These proteins are critical effectors that link RhoGTPases to cytoskeleton reorganization and nuclear signaling, and they serve as targets for the small GTP binding proteins Cdc42 and Rac. This specific family member regulates cell motility and morphology. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000146950	 The protein encoded by this gene shares significant similarities with the apical protein from Xenopus laevis which is implicated in amiloride-sensitive sodium channel activity. This gene is a strong candidate gene for ocular albinism type 1 syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109906	 This gene is a member of the Krueppel C2H2-type zinc-finger protein family and encodes a zinc finger transcription factor that contains nine Kruppel-type zinc finger domains at the carboxyl terminus. This protein is located in the nucleus, is involved in cell cycle progression, and interacts with a histone deacetylase. Specific instances of aberrant gene rearrangement at this locus have been associated with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Alternate transcriptional splice variants have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000076716	 Cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans are composed of a membrane-associated protein core substituted with a variable number of heparan sulfate chains. Members of the glypican-related integral membrane proteoglycan family (GRIPS) contain a core protein anchored to the cytoplasmic membrane via a glycosyl phosphatidylinositol linkage.  These proteins may play a role in the control of cell division and growth regulation.  The GPC4 gene is adjacent to the 3' end of GPC3 and may also play a role in Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101365	 Isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate. These enzymes belong to two distinct subclasses, one of which utilizes NAD(+) as the electron acceptor and the other NADP(+). Five isocitrate dehydrogenases have been reported: three NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, which localize to the mitochondrial matrix, and two NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases, one of which is mitochondrial and the other predominantly cytosolic. NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases catalyze the allosterically regulated rate-limiting step of the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Each isozyme is a heterotetramer that is composed of two alpha subunits, one beta subunit, and one gamma subunit. The protein encoded by this gene is the beta subunit of one isozyme of NAD(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106397	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound homodimeric enzyme that is localized to the cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. The enzyme (cofactors iron and ascorbate) catalyzes the hydroxylation of lysyl residues in collagen-like peptides. The resultant hydroxylysyl groups are attachment sites for carbohydrates in collagen and thus are critical for the stability of intermolecular crosslinks. Some patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIB have deficiencies in lysyl hydroxylase activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113851	 This gene encodes a protein related to the Lon protease protein family. In rodents and other mammals this gene product is found in the cytoplasm localized with a calcium channel membrane protein, and is thought to play a role in brain development. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive nonsyndromic mental retardation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000164265	 The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted lung surfactant protein and a downstream target of thyroid transcription factor. A single nucleotide polymorphism in the promoter of this gene results in susceptibility to asthma.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000185483	 This gene encodes a receptor tyrosine kinase-like orphan receptor that modulates neurite growth in the central nervous system. The encoded protein is a glycosylated type I membrane protein that belongs to the ROR subfamily of cell surface receptors. It is a pseudokinase that lacks catalytic activity and may interact with the non-canonical Wnt signalling pathway. This gene is highly expressed during early embryonic development but expressed at very low levels in adult tissues. Increased expression of this gene is associated with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000124486	 This gene is a member of the peptidase C19 family and encodes a protein that is similar to ubiquitin-specific proteases. Though this gene is located on the X chromosome, it escapes X-inactivation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Turner syndrome. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169047	 This gene encodes a protein which is phosphorylated by insulin receptor tyrosine kinase. Mutations in this gene are associated with type II diabetes and susceptibility to insulin resistance. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000100207	 The protein encoded by this gene binds a platelet-derived growth factor-responsive element in the matrix metalloproteinase 3 (stromelysin 1) promoter. The protein localizes to the nucleus and displays DNA-binding and transactivation activities. It is thought to be a transcriptional coactivator, enhancing the activity of transcription factors such as JUN and SP1. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000179913	 This gene encodes a member of the beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase family. This enzyme is a type II transmembrane protein and contains a signal anchor that is not cleaved. It prefers the substrates of lacto-N-tetraose and lacto-N-neotetraose, and is involved in the biosynthesis of poly-N-acetyllactosamine chains and the biosynthesis of the backbone structure of dimeric sialyl Lewis a. It plays dominant roles in L-selectin ligand biosynthesis, lymphocyte homing and lymphocyte trafficking. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196116	 This gene encodes a component of cytoplasmic RNA granules which are involved in determining the fate of mRNAs. Mutation in this gene has been associated with pediatric cataracts. Mutation of the similar gene in mice has been associated with cataracts, glaucoma and a block in spermatogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000182827	 The Golgi complex plays a key role in the sorting and modification of proteins exported from the endoplasmic reticulum. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the maintenance of Golgi structure and function through its interaction with the integral membrane protein giantin. It may also be involved in the hormonal regulation of steroid formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148680	 The neurotransmitter, serotonin, is thought to play a role in various cognitive and behavioral functions. The serotonin receptor encoded by this gene belongs to the superfamily of G protein-coupled receptors and the gene is a candidate locus for involvement in autistic disorder and other neuropsychiatric disorders. Three splice variants have been identified which encode proteins that differ in the length of their carboxy terminal ends. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167286	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of the T-cell receptor/CD3 complex (TCR/CD3 complex) and is involved in T-cell development and signal transduction. The encoded membrane protein represents the delta subunit of the CD3 complex, and along with four other CD3 subunits, binds either TCR alpha/beta or TCR gamma/delta to form the TCR/CD3 complex on the surface of T-cells. Defects in this gene are a cause of severe combined immunodeficiency autosomal recessive T-cell-negative/B-cell-positive/NK-cell-positive (SCIDBNK). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Other variants may also exist, but the full-length natures of their transcripts has yet to be defined. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000184779	 Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 40S subunit. The protein belongs to the S17E family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126759	 This gene encodes a plasma glycoprotein that positively regulates the alternative complement pathway of the innate immune system. This protein binds to many microbial surfaces and apoptotic cells and stabilizes the C3- and C5-convertase enzyme complexes in a feedback loop that ultimately leads to formation of the membrane attack complex and lysis of the target cell. Mutations in this gene result in two forms of properdin deficiency, which results in high susceptibility to meningococcal infections. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000198001	 This gene encodes a kinase that activates NF-kappaB in both the Toll-like receptor (TLR) and T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling pathways. The protein is essential for most innate immune responses. Mutations in this gene result in IRAK4 deficiency and recurrent invasive pneumococcal disease. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000113600	 This gene encodes the final component of the complement system. It participates in the formation of the Membrane Attack Complex (MAC). The MAC assembles on bacterial membranes to form a pore, permitting disruption of bacterial membrane organization. Mutations in this gene cause component C9 deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000101842	 This gene encodes a member of the junctional adhesion molecule (JAM) family. The encoded protein contains multiple glycosylation sites at the N-terminal region, and multiple phosphorylation sites and glutamic acid/proline (EP) repeats at the C-terminal region. The gene is expressed in normal stomach and testis, as well as in gastric, esophageal and ovarian cancers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000073009	 This gene encodes the regulatory subunit of the inhibitor of kappaB kinase (IKK) complex, which activates NF-kappaB resulting in activation of genes involved in inflammation, immunity, cell survival, and other pathways. Mutations in this gene result in incontinentia pigmenti, hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, and several other types of immunodeficiencies. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. A pseudogene highly similar to this locus is located in an adjacent region of the X chromosome. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000116586	 The product of this gene is highly conserved with a mouse protein associated with the cytoplasmic face of late endosomes and lysosomes. The mouse protein interacts with MAPK scaffold protein 1, a component of the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway. In humans, a mutation in this gene has been associated with a primary immunodeficiency syndrome, and suggests a role for this protein in endosomal biogenesis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000102069	 This gene is intronless and encodes a member of the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme family. The protein product is 91% identical to ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2N, a multi-exon gene product. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000004455	 Adenylate kinases are involved in regulating the adenine nucleotide composition within a cell by catalyzing the reversible transfer of phosphate groups among adenine nucleotides. Three isozymes of adenylate kinase, namely 1, 2, and 3, have been identified in vertebrates; this gene encodes isozyme 2. Expression of these isozymes is tissue-specific and developmentally regulated. Isozyme 2 is localized in the mitochondrial intermembrane space and may play a role in apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are the cause of reticular dysgenesis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 1 and 2.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000197442	 Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling cascades include MAPK or extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), MAPK kinase (MKK or MEK), and MAPK kinase kinase (MAPKKK or MEKK). MAPKK kinase/MEKK phosphorylates and activates its downstream protein kinase, MAPK kinase/MEK, which in turn activates MAPK. The kinases of these signaling cascades are highly conserved, and homologs exist in yeast, Drosophila, and mammalian cells. MAPKKK5 contains 1,374 amino acids with all 11 kinase subdomains. Northern blot analysis shows that MAPKKK5 transcript is abundantly expressed in human heart and pancreas. The MAPKKK5 protein phosphorylates and activates MKK4 (aliases SERK1, MAPKK4) in vitro, and activates c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)/stress-activated protein kinase (SAPK) during transient expression in COS and 293 cells; MAPKKK5 does not activate MAPK/ERK. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119866	 This gene encodes a C2H2 type zinc-finger protein by its similarity to the mouse Bcl11a/Evi9 protein. The corresponding mouse gene is a common site of retroviral integration in myeloid leukemia, and may function as a leukemia disease gene, in part, through its interaction with BCL6. During hematopoietic cell differentiation, this gene is down-regulated. It is possibly involved in lymphoma pathogenesis since translocations associated with B-cell malignancies also deregulates its expression. Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000069248	 The nuclear envelope creates distinct nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments in eukaryotic cells. It consists of two concentric membranes perforated by nuclear pores, large protein complexes that form aqueous channels to regulate the flow of macromolecules between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. These complexes are composed of at least 100 different polypeptide subunits, many of which belong to the nucleoporin family. The nucleoporin protein encoded by this gene displays evolutionarily conserved interactions with other nucleoporins. This protein, which localizes to both sides of the nuclear pore complex at interphase, remains associated with the complex during mitosis and is targeted at early stages to the reforming nuclear envelope. This protein also localizes to kinetochores of mitotic cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000177192	 This gene encodes a pseudouridine synthase that converts uridine to pseudouridine once it has been incorporated into an RNA molecule. The encoded enzyme may play an essential role in tRNA function and in stabilizing the secondary and tertiary structure of many RNAs. A mutation in this gene has been linked to mitochondrial myopathy and sideroblastic anemia. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000132359	 This gene encodes a GTPase-activating protein that activates the small guanine-nucleotide-binding protein Rap1 in platelets. The protein interacts with synaptotagmin-like protein 1 and Rab27 and regulates secretion of dense granules from platelets at sites of endothelial damage. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000134438	 This gene encodes a homeobox-containing transcription factor that functions in eye development. The gene is expressed early in the eye primordia, and is required for retinal cell fate determination and also regulates stem cell proliferation. Mutations in this gene have been reported in patients with defects in ocular development, including microphthalmia, anophthalmia, and coloboma.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000151322	 This gene encodes a member of the basic helix-loop-helix and PAS domain-containing family of transcription factors. The encoded protein is localized to the nucleus and may regulate genes involved in neurogenesis. Chromosomal abnormalities that affect the coding potential of this gene are associated with schizophrenia and mental retardation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000068615	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that functions to enhance the cell surface expression of odorant receptors. Mutations in this gene cause spastic paraplegia autosomal dominant type 31, a neurodegenerative disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000055955	 The protein encoded by this gene is secreted into the blood, where it is cleaved by plasma kallikrein into two smaller forms. Expression of this gene has been detected only in liver, and it seems to be upregulated during surgical trauma. This gene is part of a cluster of similar genes on chromosome 3. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000114353	 The protein encoded by this gene is an alpha subunit of guanine nucleotide binding proteins (G proteins). The encoded protein contains the guanine nucleotide binding site and is involved in the hormonal regulation of adenylate cyclase. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been detected for this gene, but the full-length nature of only two are known so far. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000156150	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein with a homeobox DNA-binding domain that functions as a transcriptional regulator involved in cell-type differentiation and development. Preferential methylation of this gene's promoter is associated with advanced-stage neuroblastoma tumors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000097007	  The ABL1 protooncogene encodes a cytoplasmic and nuclear protein tyrosine kinase that has been implicated in processes of cell differentiation, cell division, cell adhesion, and stress response.  Activity of c-Abl protein is negatively regulated by its SH3 domain, and deletion of the SH3 domain turns ABL1 into an oncogene.  The t(9;22) translocation results in the head-to-tail fusion of the BCR (MIM:151410) and ABL1 genes present in many cases of chronic myelogeneous leukemia.  The DNA-binding activity of the ubiquitously expressed ABL1 tyrosine kinase is regulated by CDC2-mediated phosphorylation, suggesting a cell cycle function for ABL1.  The ABL1 gene is expressed as either a 6- or 7-kb mRNA transcript, with alternatively spliced first exons spliced to the common exons 2-11. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198680	 This gene is located within the region of chromosome 9p that harbors tumor suppressor genes critical in carcinogenesis. It is an intronless gene which is downregulated in non-small-cell lung cancer and small-cell lung cancer cell lines, suggesting that it may play a role in lung tumorigenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000172468	 This gene encodes a member of the heat shock factor (HSF) family of transcriptional activators for heat shock proteins. This gene is a candidate gene for azoospermia, since it localizes to a region of chromosome Y that is sometimes deleted in infertile males. The genome has two identical copies of this gene within a palindromic region; this record represents the more centromeric copy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178445	 Degradation of glycine is brought about by the glycine cleavage system, which is composed of four mitochondrial protein components: P protein (a pyridoxal phosphate-dependent glycine decarboxylase), H protein (a lipoic acid-containing protein), T protein (a tetrahydrofolate-requiring enzyme), and L protein (a lipoamide dehydrogenase). The protein encoded by this gene is the P protein, which binds to glycine and enables the methylamine group from glycine to be transferred to the T protein. Defects in this gene are a cause of nonketotic hyperglycinemia (NKH).[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000102158	 This gene encodes a magnesium cation transporter protein that localizes to the cell membrane. This protein also associates with N-oligosaccharyl transferase and therefore may have a role in N-glycosylation. Mutations in this gene cause mental retardation X-linked type 95 (MRX95). This gene may have multiple in-frame translation initiation sites, one of which would encode a shorter protein with an N-terminus containing a signal peptide at amino acids 1-29. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000177469	 This gene encodes a protein that enables the dissociation of paused ternary polymerase I transcription complexes from the 3' end of pre-rRNA transcripts. This protein regulates rRNA transcription by promoting the dissociation of transcription complexes and the reinitiation of polymerase I on nascent rRNA transcripts. This protein also localizes to caveolae at the plasma membrane and is thought to play a critical role in the formation of caveolae and the stabilization of caveolins. This protein translocates from caveolae to the cytoplasm after insulin stimulation. Caveolae contain truncated forms of this protein and may be the site of phosphorylation-dependent proteolysis. This protein is also thought to modify lipid metabolism and insulin-regulated gene expression. Mutations in this gene result in a disorder characterized by generalized lipodystrophy and muscular dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000147378	 This gene encodes a cancer-testis antigen that is highly expressed in hepatocellular carcinomas and other tumors and weakly expressed in normal tissues except testis. The protein is strongly expressed in spermatogonia, primary spermatocytes, and Sertoli cells in seminiferous tubules. This protein may have a role in the control of early testicular differentiation and cell proliferation. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000177426	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the three-amino acid loop extension (TALE) superclass of atypical homeodomains. TALE homeobox proteins are highly conserved transcription regulators. This particular homeodomain binds to a previously characterized retinoid X receptor responsive element from the cellular retinol-binding protein II promoter. In addition to its role in inhibiting 9-cis-retinoic acid-dependent RXR alpha transcription activation of the retinoic acid responsive element, the protein is an active transcriptional co-repressor of SMAD2 and may participate in the transmission of nuclear signals during development and in the adult. Mutations in this gene are associated with holoprosencephaly type 4, which is a structural anomaly of the brain. Alternative splicing has been observed at this locus and eight variants, encoding four distinct isoforms, are described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134365	 This gene is a member of the complement factor H (CFH) gene family, and encodes one of the 5 CFH-related (CFHR) proteins. These 5 genes are closely linked to the CFH gene on chromosome 1q31-q32. The CFHRs are secreted plasma proteins synthesized primarily by the hepatocytes, and composed of highly-related short consensus repeats (SCRs). This protein enhances the cofactor activity of CFH, and is involved in complement regulation. It can associate with lipoproteins and may play a role in lipid metabolism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms (varying in the number of SCRs) have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000171365	 This gene encodes a member of the ClC family of chloride ion channels and ion transporters. Mutations in this gene have been found in Dent disease and renal tubular disorders complicated by nephrolithiasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000092295	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein that catalyzes the addition of an alkyl group from an akylamine to a glutamine residue of a protein, forming an alkylglutamine in the protein. This protein alkylation leads to crosslinking of proteins and catenation of polyamines to proteins. This gene contains either one or two copies of a 22 nt repeat unit in its 3' UTR. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive lamellar ichthyosis (LI) and nonbullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma (NCIE). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167131	 This gene encodes a protein that contains a coiled-coil domain. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000159173	 Troponin proteins associate with tropomyosin and regulate the calcium sensitivity of the myofibril contractile apparatus of striated muscles. Troponin I (TnI), along with troponin T (TnT) and troponin C (TnC), is one of 3 subunits that form the troponin complex of the thin filaments of striated muscle. TnI is the inhibitory subunit; blocking actin-myosin interactions and thereby mediating striated muscle relaxation. The TnI subfamily contains three genes: TnI-skeletal-fast-twitch, TnI-skeletal-slow-twitch, and TnI-cardiac. The TnI-fast and TnI-slow genes are expressed in fast-twitch and slow-twitch skeletal muscle fibers, respectively, while the TnI-cardiac gene is expressed exclusively in cardiac muscle tissue. This gene encodes the Troponin-I-skeletal-slow-twitch protein. This gene is expressed in cardiac and skeletal muscle during early development but is restricted to slow-twitch skeletal muscle fibers in adults. The encoded protein prevents muscle contraction by inhibiting calcium-mediated conformational changes in actin-myosin complexes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166819	 The protein encoded by this gene coats lipid storage droplets in adipocytes, thereby protecting them until they can be broken down by hormone-sensitive lipase. The encoded protein is the major cAMP-dependent protein kinase substrate in adipocytes and, when unphosphorylated, may play a role in the inhibition of lipolysis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants varying in the 5' UTR, but encoding the same protein, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000092208	 This gene encodes one of the proteins found in the SMN complex, which consists of several gemin proteins and the protein known as the survival of motor neuron protein. The SMN complex is localized to a subnuclear compartment called gems (gemini of coiled bodies) and is required for assembly of spliceosomal snRNPs and for pre-mRNA splicing. This protein interacts directly with the survival of motor neuron protein and it is required for formation of the SMN complex. A knockout mouse targeting the mouse homolog of this gene exhibited disrupted snRNP assembly and motor neuron degeneration. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000131725	 This gene encodes a protein that interacts with the small GTPase rab11. A similar protein in rat binds the GTP-containing active form of rab11. This protein may play a role in endosome recycling. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000188580	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane protein that interacts with the beta subunit of Na,K-ATPase (ATP1B1). A chromosomal translocation involving this gene is a cause of lymphoma. At least two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000143669	 This gene is thought to encode a protein that regulates intracellular protein trafficking to and from the lysosome. Mutations in this gene are associated with Chediak-Higashi syndrome, a rare lysosomal storage disorder. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116218	 This gene encodes the glomerular protein podocin which plays a role in the regulation of glomerular permeability, and acts as a linker between the plasma membrane and the cytoskeleton. Defects in this gene are the cause of autosomal recessive steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome (SRN). SRN is characterized by onset between three months and five years, resistance to steroid therapy and rapid progression to end-stage renal disease. An alternative splice variant has been described but its full length sequence has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000151611	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the translocation of cobalamin into the mitochondrion, where it is used in the final steps of adenosylcobalamin synthesis. Adenosylcobalamin is a coenzyme required for the activity of methylmalonyl-CoA mutase. Defects in this gene are a cause of methylmalonic aciduria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000174842	 This gene encodes a phosphorylated protein that is a member of a Skp1-Cullin-F-box-like complex. The protein is essential for normal development of the vasculature and mutations in this gene have been associated with glomuvenous malformations, also called glomangiomas. Alternatively spliced variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described but the full-length nature of only one has been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000007168	 This locus was identified as encoding a gene that when mutated or lost caused the lissencephaly associated with Miller-Dieker lissencephaly syndrome. This gene encodes the non-catalytic alpha subunit of the intracellular Ib isoform of platelet-activating factor acteylhydrolase, a heterotrimeric enzyme that specifically catalyzes the removal of the acetyl group at the SN-2 position of platelet-activating factor (identified as 1-O-alkyl-2-acetyl-sn-glyceryl-3-phosphorylcholine). Two other isoforms of intracellular platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase exist: one composed of multiple subunits, the other, a single subunit. In addition, a single-subunit isoform of this enzyme is found in serum. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000165168	 Cytochrome b (-245) is composed of cytochrome b alpha (CYBA) and beta (CYBB) chain. It has been proposed as a primary component of the microbicidal oxidase system of phagocytes. CYBB deficiency is one of five described biochemical defects associated with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD). In this disorder, there is decreased activity of phagocyte NADPH oxidase; neutrophils are able to phagocytize bacteria but cannot kill them in the phagocytic vacuoles. The cause of the killing defect is an inability to increase the cell's respiration and consequent failure to deliver activated oxygen into the phagocytic vacuole. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000203747	 This gene encodes a receptor for the Fc portion of immunoglobulin G, and it is involved in the removal of antigen-antibody complexes from the circulation, as well as other other antibody-dependent responses. This gene (FCGR3A) is highly similar to another nearby gene (FCGR3B) located on chromosome 1. The receptor encoded by this gene is expressed on natural killer (NK) cells as an integral membrane glycoprotein anchored through a transmembrane peptide, whereas FCGR3B is expressed on polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN) where the receptor is anchored through a phosphatidylinositol (PI) linkage. Mutations in this gene have been linked to susceptibility to recurrent viral infections, susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus, and alloimmune neonatal neutropenia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000107859	 This gene encodes a member of the RIEG/PITX homeobox family, which is in the bicoid class of homeodomain proteins. Members of this family act as transcription factors. This protein is involved in lens formation during eye development. Mutations of this gene have been associated with anterior segment mesenchymal dysgenesis and congenital cataracts. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130164	 The low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene family consists of cell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of specific ligands. Low density lipoprotein (LDL) is normally bound at the cell membrane and taken into the cell ending up in lysosomes where the protein is degraded and the cholesterol is made available for repression of microsomal enzyme 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase, the rate-limiting step in cholesterol synthesis. At the same time, a reciprocal stimulation of cholesterol ester synthesis takes place. Mutations in this gene cause the autosomal dominant disorder, familial hypercholesterolemia. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000169174	 This gene encodes a proprotein convertase belonging to the proteinase K subfamily of the secretory subtilase family. The encoded protein is synthesized as a soluble zymogen that undergoes autocatalytic intramolecular processing in the endoplasmic reticulum. The protein may function as a proprotein convertase. This protein plays a role in cholesterol homeostasis and may have a role in the differentiation of cortical neurons. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a third form of autosomal dominant familial hypercholesterolemia (HCHOLA3). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113580	 This gene encodes glucocorticoid receptor, which can function both as a transcription factor that binds to glucocorticoid response elements in the promoters of glucocorticoid responsive genes to activate their transcription, and as a regulator of other transcription factors. This receptor is typically found in the cytoplasm, but upon ligand binding, is transported into the nucleus. It is involved in inflammatory responses, cellular proliferation, and differentiation in target tissues. Mutations in this gene are associated with generalized glucocorticoid resistance. Alternative splicing of this gene results in transcript variants encoding either the same or different isoforms. Additional isoforms resulting from the use of alternate in-frame translation initiation sites have also been described, and shown to be functional, displaying diverse cytoplasm-to-nucleus trafficking patterns and distinct transcriptional activities (PMID:15866175). [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000138622	 This gene encodes a member of the hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated potassium channels. The encoded protein shows slow kinetics of activation and inactivation, and is necessary for the cardiac pacemaking process. This channel may also mediate responses to sour stimuli. Mutations in this gene have been linked to sick sinus syndrome 2, also known as atrial fibrillation with bradyarrhythmia or familial sinus bradycardia. Two pseudogenes have been identified on chromosome 15. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000162735	 This gene is necessary for early peroxisomal biogenesis. It acts both as a cytosolic chaperone and as an import receptor for peroxisomal membrane proteins (PMPs). Peroxins (PEXs) are proteins that are essential for the assembly of functional peroxisomes. The peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs) are a group of genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive, lethal diseases characterized by multiple defects in peroxisome function. These disorders have at least 14 complementation groups, with more than one phenotype being observed for some complementation groups. Although the clinical features of PBD patients vary, cells from all PBD patients exhibit a defect in the import of one or more classes of peroxisomal matrix proteins into the organelle. Defects in this gene are a cause of Zellweger syndrome (ZWS), as well as peroxisome biogenesis disorder complementation group 14 (PBD-CG14), which is also known as PBD-CGJ. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000147168	 The protein encoded by this gene is an important signaling component of many interleukin receptors, including those of interleukin -2, -4, -7 and -21, and is thus referred to as the common gamma chain. Mutations in this gene cause X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (XSCID), as well as X-linked combined immunodeficiency (XCID), a less severe immunodeficiency disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000026103	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor contains a death domain. It has been shown to play a central role in the physiological regulation of programmed cell death, and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various malignancies and diseases of the immune system. The interaction of this receptor with its ligand allows the formation of a death-inducing signaling complex that includes Fas-associated death domain protein (FADD), caspase 8, and caspase 10. The autoproteolytic processing of the caspases in the complex triggers a downstream caspase cascade, and leads to apoptosis. This receptor has been also shown to activate NF-kappaB, MAPK3/ERK1, and MAPK8/JNK, and is found to be involved in transducing the proliferating signals in normal diploid fibroblast and T cells. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, some of which are candidates for nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). The isoforms lacking the transmembrane domain may negatively regulate the apoptosis mediated by the full length isoform. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000198523	 The protein encoded by this gene is found as a pentamer and is a major substrate for the cAMP-dependent protein kinase in cardiac muscle. The encoded protein is an inhibitor of cardiac muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase in the unphosphorylated state, but inhibition is relieved upon phosphorylation of the protein. The subsequent activation of the Ca(2+) pump leads to enhanced muscle relaxation rates, thereby contributing to the inotropic response elicited in heart by beta-agonists. The encoded protein is a key regulator of cardiac diastolic function. Mutations in this gene are a cause of inherited human dilated cardiomyopathy with refractory congestive heart failure. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000077522	 Alpha actinins belong to the spectrin gene superfamily which represents a diverse group of cytoskeletal proteins, including the alpha and beta spectrins and dystrophins. Alpha actinin is an actin-binding protein with multiple roles in different cell types. In nonmuscle cells, the cytoskeletal isoform is found along microfilament bundles and adherens-type junctions, where it is involved in binding actin to the membrane. In contrast, skeletal, cardiac, and smooth muscle isoforms are localized to the Z-disc and analogous dense bodies, where they help anchor the myofibrillar actin filaments. This gene encodes a muscle-specific, alpha actinin isoform that is expressed in both skeletal and cardiac muscles. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137474	 This gene is a member of the myosin gene family. Myosins are mechanochemical proteins characterized by the presence of a motor domain, an actin-binding domain, a neck domain that interacts with other proteins, and a tail domain that serves as an anchor. This gene encodes an unconventional myosin with a very short tail. Defects in this gene are associated with the mouse shaker-1 phenotype and the human Usher syndrome 1B which are characterized by deafness, reduced vestibular function, and (in human) retinal degeneration. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171867	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored glycoprotein that tends to aggregate into rod-like structures. The encoded protein contains a highly unstable region of five tandem octapeptide repeats. This gene is found on chromosome 20, approximately 20 kbp upstream of a gene which encodes a biochemically and structurally similar protein to the one encoded by this gene. Mutations in the repeat region as well as elsewhere in this gene have been associated with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, fatal familial insomnia, Gerstmann-Straussler disease, Huntington disease-like 1, and kuru. An overlapping open reading frame has been found for this gene that encodes a smaller, structurally unrelated protein, AltPrp. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]. 
ENSG00000059377	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. However, this protein is considered a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily on the basis of sequence similarity rather than functional similarity. This endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein catalyzes the conversion of prostglandin H2 to thromboxane A2, a potent vasoconstrictor and inducer of platelet aggregation. The enzyme plays a role in several pathophysiological processes including hemostasis, cardiovascular disease, and stroke. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000160868	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases that catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by glucocorticoids and some pharmacological agents. This enzyme is involved in the metabolism of approximately half the drugs in use today, including acetaminophen, codeine, cyclosporin A, diazepam and erythromycin. The enzyme also metabolizes some steroids and carcinogens. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 7q21.1. Previously another CYP3A gene, CYP3A3, was thought to exist; however, it is now thought that this sequence represents a transcript variant of CYP3A4. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000157978	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytosolic protein which contains a phosphotyrosine binding (PTD) domain. The PTD domain has been found to interact with the cytoplasmic tail of the LDL receptor. Mutations in this gene lead to LDL receptor malfunction and cause the disorder autosomal recessive hypercholesterolaemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000053918	 This gene encodes a voltage-gated potassium channel required for repolarization phase of the cardiac action potential. This protein can form heteromultimers with two other potassium channel proteins, KCNE1 and KCNE3. Mutations in this gene are associated with hereditary long QT syndrome 1 (also known as Romano-Ward syndrome), Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome, and familial atrial fibrillation. This gene exhibits tissue-specific imprinting, with preferential expression from the maternal allele in some tissues, and biallelic expression in others. This gene is located in a region of chromosome 11 amongst other imprinted genes that are associated with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS), and itself has been shown to be disrupted by chromosomal rearrangements in patients with BWS. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000115525	 Ganglioside GM3 is known to participate in the induction of cell differentiation, modulation of cell proliferation, maintenance of fibroblast morphology, signal transduction, and integrin-mediated cell adhesion. The protein encoded by this gene is a type II membrane protein which catalyzes the formation of GM3 using lactosylceramide as the substrate. The encoded protein is a member of glycosyltransferase family 29 and may be localized to the Golgi apparatus. Mutation in this gene has been associated with Amish infantile epilepsy syndrome. Transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000026508	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cell-surface glycoprotein involved in cell-cell interactions, cell adhesion and migration. It is a receptor for hyaluronic acid (HA) and can also interact with other ligands, such as osteopontin, collagens, and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). This protein participates in a wide variety of cellular functions including lymphocyte activation, recirculation and homing, hematopoiesis, and tumor metastasis. Transcripts for this gene undergo complex alternative splicing that results in many functionally distinct isoforms, however, the full length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. Alternative splicing is the basis for the structural and functional diversity of this protein, and may be related to tumor metastasis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the CD44*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000122877	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor with three tandem C2H2-type zinc fingers. Defects in this gene are associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1D (CMT1D), Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4E (CMT4E), and with Dejerine-Sottas syndrome (DSS). Multiple transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000184634	 The initiation of transcription is controlled in part by a large protein assembly known as the preinitiation complex. A component of this preinitiation complex is a 1.2 MDa protein aggregate called Mediator. This Mediator component binds with a CDK8 subcomplex which contains the protein encoded by this gene, mediator complex subunit 12 (MED12), along with MED13, CDK8 kinase, and cyclin C. The CDK8 subcomplex modulates Mediator-polymerase II interactions and thereby regulates transcription initiation and reinitation rates. The MED12 protein is essential for activating CDK8 kinase. Defects in this gene cause X-linked Opitz-Kaveggia syndrome, also known as FG syndrome, and Lujan-Fryns syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000122870	 This gene encodes an RNA-binding protein that is active in regulating gene expression by modulating protein translation during embryonic development. Mouse studies identified the corresponding protein to be under strict control during cell differentiation and to be a maternally provided gene product. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000071243	 The protein encoded by this gene is similar to ING1, a tumor suppressor protein that can interact with TP53, inhibit cell growth, and induce apoptosis. This protein contains a PHD-finger, which is a common motif in proteins involved in chromatin remodeling. This gene can activate p53 trans-activated promoters, including promoters of p21/waf1 and bax. Overexpression of this gene has been shown to inhibit cell growth and induce apoptosis. Allelic loss and reduced expression of this gene were detected in head and neck cancers. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170315	 This gene encodes ubiquitin, one of the most conserved proteins known. Ubiquitin is required for ATP-dependent, nonlysosomal intracellular protein degradation of abnormal proteins and normal proteins with a rapid turnover. Ubiquitin is covalently bound to proteins to be degraded, and presumably labels these proteins for degradation. Ubiquitin also binds to histone H2A in actively transcribed regions but does not cause histone H2A degradation, suggesting that ubiquitin is also involved in regulation of gene expression. This gene consists of three direct repeats of the ubiquitin coding sequence with no spacer sequence. Consequently, the protein is expressed as a polyubiquitin precursor with a final amino acid after the last repeat. Aberrant form of this protein has been noticed in patients with Alzheimer's and Down syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000256515	 This gene is one of several cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. This protein binds to several chemokine receptors including chemokine binding protein 2 and chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5 (CCR5). CCR5 is a co-receptor for HIV, and binding of this protein to CCR5 inhibits HIV entry. The copy number of this gene varies among individuals; most individuals have 1-6 copies in the diploid genome, although rare individuals have zero or more than six copies. The human genome reference assembly contains two full copies of the gene (CCL3L3 and CCL3L1) and a partial pseudogene. This record represents the more centromeric full-length gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000120156	 The TEK receptor tyrosine kinase is expressed almost exclusively in endothelial cells in mice, rats, and humans. This receptor possesses a unique extracellular domain containing 2 immunoglobulin-like loops separated by 3 epidermal growth factor-like repeats that are connected to 3 fibronectin type III-like repeats. The ligand for the receptor is angiopoietin-1. Defects in TEK are associated with inherited venous malformations; the TEK signaling pathway appears to be critical for endothelial cell-smooth muscle cell communication in venous morphogenesis. TEK is closely related to the TIE receptor tyrosine kinase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000151552	 This gene encodes the enzyme dihydropteridine reductase, which catalyzes the NADH-mediated reduction of quinonoid dihydrobiopterin.  This enzyme is an essential component of the pterin-dependent aromatic amino acid hydroxylating systems. Mutations in this gene resulting in QDPR deficiency include aberrant splicing, amino acid substitutions, insertions, or premature terminations.  Dihydropteridine reductase deficiency presents as atypical phenylketonuria due to insufficient production of biopterin, a cofactor for phenylalanine hydroxylase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000075891	 PAX2 encodes paired box gene 2, one of many human homologues of the Drosophila melanogaster gene prd. The central feature of this transcription factor gene family is the conserved DNA-binding paired box domain. PAX2 is believed to be a target of transcriptional supression by the tumor supressor gene WT1. Mutations within PAX2 have been shown to result in optic nerve colobomas and renal hypoplasia. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000142168	 The protein encoded by this gene binds copper and zinc ions and is one of two isozymes responsible for destroying free superoxide radicals in the body. The encoded isozyme is a soluble cytoplasmic protein, acting as a homodimer to convert naturally-occuring but harmful superoxide radicals to molecular oxygen and hydrogen peroxide. The other isozyme is a mitochondrial protein. Mutations in this gene have been implicated as causes of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Rare transcript variants have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168477	 This gene encodes a member of the tenascin family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins. The tenascins have anti-adhesive effects, as opposed to fibronectin which is adhesive. This protein is thought to function in matrix maturation during wound healing, and its deficiency has been associated with the connective tissue disorder Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. This gene localizes to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class III region on chromosome 6. It is one of four genes in this cluster which have been duplicated. The duplicated copy of this gene is incomplete and is a pseudogene which is transcribed but does not encode a protein. The structure of this gene is unusual in that it overlaps the CREBL1 and CYP21A2 genes at its 5' and 3' ends, respectively. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000111834	 This gene encodes a protein that appears to be a component the radial spoke head, as determined by homology to similar proteins in the biflagellate alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and other ciliates. Radial spokes, which are regularly spaced along cilia, sperm, and flagella axonemes, consist of a thin 'stalk' and a bulbous 'head' that form a signal transduction scaffold between the central pair of microtubules and dynein. Mutations in this gene cause primary ciliary dyskinesia 1, a disease arising from dysmotility of motile cilia and sperm. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000105641	 This gene encodes a member of the sodium glucose cotransporter family. The encoded protein is responsible for the uptake of iodine in tissues such as the thyroid and lactating breast tissue. The iodine taken up by the thyroid is incorporated into the metabolic regulators triiodothyronine (T3) and tetraiodothyronine (T4). Mutations in this gene are associated with thyroid dyshormonogenesis 1.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000164171	 This gene encodes the alpha subunit of a transmembrane receptor for collagens and related proteins. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with a beta subunit and mediates the adhesion of platelets and other cell types to the extracellular matrix. Loss of the encoded protein is associated with bleeding disorder platelet-type 9. Antibodies against this protein are found in several immune disorders, including neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia. This gene is located adjacent to a related alpha subunit gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000138696	 This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptor family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. The ligands of this receptor are BMPs, which are members of the TGF-beta superfamily. BMPs are involved in endochondral bone formation and embryogenesis. These proteins transduce their signals through the formation of heteromeric complexes of 2 different types of serine (threonine) kinase receptors: type I receptors of about 50-55 kD and type II receptors of about 70-80 kD. Type II receptors bind ligands in the absence of type I receptors, but they require their respective type I receptors for signaling, whereas type I receptors require their respective type II receptors for ligand binding. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary pulmonary hypertension. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000105983	 This gene encodes a member of the LMBR1-like membrane protein family. Another member of this protein family has been shown to be a lipocalin transmembrane receptor. A highly conserved, cis-acting regulatory module for the sonic hedgehog gene is located within an intron of this gene. Consequently, disruption of this genic region can alter sonic hedgehog expression and affect limb patterning, but it is not known if this gene functions directly in limb development. Mutations and chromosomal deletions and rearrangements in this genic region are associated with acheiropody and preaxial polydactyly, which likely result from altered sonic hedgehog expression. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125351	 This gene encodes a protein that is part of a post-splicing multiprotein complex involved in both mRNA nuclear export and mRNA surveillance. The encoded protein is one of two functional homologs to yeast Upf3p. mRNA surveillance detects exported mRNAs with truncated open reading frames and initiates nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). When translation ends upstream from the last exon-exon junction, this triggers NMD to degrade mRNAs containing premature stop codons. This protein binds to the mRNA and remains bound after nuclear export, acting as a nucleocytoplasmic shuttling protein. It forms with Y14 a complex that binds specifically 20 nt upstream of exon-exon junctions. This gene is located on the long arm of chromosome X. Two splice variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000215193	 This gene belongs to the peroxin-26 gene family. It is probably required for protein import into peroxisomes. It anchors PEX1 and PEX6 to peroxisome membranes, possibly to form heteromeric AAA ATPase complexes required for the import of proteins into peroxisomes. Defects in this gene are the cause of peroxisome biogenesis disorder complementation group 8 (PBD-CG8). PBD refers to a group of peroxisomal disorders arising from a failure of protein import into the peroxisomal membrane or matrix. The PBD group is comprised of four disorders: Zellweger syndrome (ZWS), neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD), infantile Refsum disease (IRD), and classical rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata (RCDP). Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000172817	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein catalyzes the first reaction in the cholesterol catabolic pathway of extrahepatic tissues, which converts cholesterol to bile acids. This enzyme likely plays a minor role in total bile acid synthesis, but may also be involved in the development of atherosclerosis, neurosteroid metabolism and sex hormone synthesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113966	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ARF family of GTP-binding proteins. ARF proteins are important regulators of cellular traffic and are the founding members of an expanding family of homologous proteins and genomic sequences. They depart from other small GTP-binding proteins by a unique structural device that implements front-back communication from the N-terminus to the nucleotide-binding site. Studies of the mouse ortholog of this protein suggest an involvement in protein transport, membrane trafficking, or cell signaling during hematopoietic maturation. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143768	 This gene encodes a member of the TGF-beta family of proteins. The encoded protein is secreted and plays a role in left-right asymmetry determination of organ systems during development. The protein may also play a role in endometrial bleeding. Mutations in this gene have been associated with left-right axis malformations, particularly in the heart and lungs. Some types of infertility have been associated with dysregulated expression of this gene in the endometrium. Alternative processing of this protein can yield three different products. This gene is closely linked to both a related family member and a related pseudogene. Alternate splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000171320	 This gene encodes a protein that may have acetyltransferase activity and may be required for the establishment of sister chromatid cohesion during the S phase of mitosis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Roberts syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140522	 The protein encoded by this gene is a 36-kD water-soluble protein which carries 11-cis-retinaldehyde or 11-cis-retinal as physiologic ligands. It may be a functional component of the visual cycle. Mutations of this gene have been associated with severe rod-cone dystrophy, Bothnia dystrophy (nonsyndromic autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa) and retinitis punctata albescens. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000156925	 This gene encodes a member of the ZIC family of C2H2-type zinc finger proteins. This nuclear protein probably functions as a transcription factor in early stages of left-right body axis formation. Mutations in this gene cause X-linked visceral heterotaxy, which includes congenital heart disease and left-right axis defects in organs. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000122691	 Basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors have been implicated in cell lineage determination and differentiation. The protein encoded by this gene is a bHLH transcription factor and shares similarity with another bHLH transcription factor, Dermo1. The strongest expression of this mRNA is in placental tissue; in adults, mesodermally derived tissues express this mRNA preferentially. Mutations in this gene have been found in patients with Saethre-Chotzen syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000067646	 This gene encodes a zinc finger-containing protein that may function as a transcription factor. This gene was once a candidate gene for the testis-determining factor (TDF) and was erroneously referred to as TDF. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120725	 This gene encodes a resident endoplasmic reticulum (ER), N-linked glycoprotein with an N-terminal ER targeting sequence, 2 putative N-glycosylation sites, and a C-terminal ER retention signal. This protein functions as a nucleotide exchange factor for another unfolded protein response protein. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Marinesco-Sjogren syndrome. Alternate transcriptional splice variants have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100031	 The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the transfer of the glutamyl moiety of glutathione to a variety of amino acids and dipeptide acceptors. The enzyme is composed of a heavy chain and a light chain, which are derived from a single precursor protein, and is present in tissues involved in absorption and secretion. This enzyme is a member of the gamma-glutamyltransferase protein family, of which many members have not yet been fully characterized and some of which may represent pseudogenes. This gene is classified as type I gamma-glutamyltransferase. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000197891	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the organic anion transporter (OAT) family, and it acts as a urate transporter to regulate urate levels in blood. This protein is an integral membrane protein primarily found in epithelial cells of the proximal tubule of the kidney. An elevated level of serum urate, hyperuricemia, is associated with increased incidences of gout, and mutations in this gene cause renal hypouricemia type 1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000141499	 This gene encodes an essential component of the telomerase holoenzyme complex, a ribonucleoprotein complex required for telomere synthesis. This protein is enriched in Cajal bodies, nuclear sites of RNP processing that are important for telomerase function. It interacts with dyskerin, TERT and TERC, other components of active telomerase, and with small Cajal body RNAs (scaRNAs), which are involved in modifying splicing RNAs. This mRNA also functions as a p53 antisense transcript, that regulates endogenous p53 mRNA levels and further induction of p53 protein by targeting the 5' untranslated region of p53 mRNA. Alternatively spliced transcript variants which differ only in the 5' UTR have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000112769	 Laminins, a family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins, are the major noncollagenous constituent of basement membranes. They have been implicated in a wide variety of biological processes including cell adhesion, differentiation, migration, signaling, neurite outgrowth and metastasis. Laminins are composed of 3 non identical chains: laminin alpha, beta and gamma (formerly A, B1, and B2, respectively) and they form a cruciform structure consisting of 3 short arms, each formed by a different chain, and a long arm composed of all 3 chains. Each laminin chain is a multidomain protein encoded by a distinct gene. Several isoforms of each chain have been described. Different alpha, beta and gamma chain isomers combine to give rise to different heterotrimeric laminin isoforms which are designated by Arabic numerals in the order of their discovery, i.e. alpha1beta1gamma1 heterotrimer is laminin 1. The biological functions of the different chains and trimer molecules are largely unknown, but some of the chains have been shown to differ with respect to their tissue distribution, presumably reflecting diverse functions in vivo. This gene encodes the alpha chain isoform laminin, alpha 4. The domain structure of alpha 4 is similar to that of alpha 3, both of which resemble truncated versions of alpha 1 and alpha 2, in that approximately 1,200 residues at the N-terminus (domains IV, V and VI) have been lost. Laminin, alpha 4 contains the C-terminal G domain which distinguishes all alpha chains from the beta and gamma chains. The RNA analysis from adult and fetal tissues revealed developmental regulation of expression, however, the exact function of laminin, alpha 4 is not known. Tissue-specific utilization of alternative polyA-signal has been described in literature. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000134755	 The protein encoded by this gene is a calcium-dependent glycoprotein that is a member of the desmocollin subfamily of the cadherin superfamily. These desmosomal family members, along with the desmogleins, are found primarily in epithelial cells where they constitute the adhesive proteins of the desmosome cell-cell junction and are required for cell adhesion and desmosome formation. The desmosomal family members are arranged in two clusters on chromosome 18, occupying less than 650 kb combined. Mutations in this gene are associated with arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia-11. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000091651	 The origin recognition complex (ORC) is a highly conserved six subunit protein complex essential for the initiation of the DNA replication in eukaryotic cells. Studies in yeast demonstrated that ORC binds specifically to origins of replication and serves as a platform for the assembly of additional initiation factors such as Cdc6 and Mcm proteins. The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the ORC complex. Gene silencing studies with small interfering RNA demonstrated that this protein plays an essential role in coordinating chromosome replication and segregation with cytokinesis. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000094804	 The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc6, a protein essential for the initiation of DNA replication. This protein functions as a regulator at the early steps of DNA replication. It localizes in cell nucleus during cell cyle G1, but translocates to the cytoplasm at the start of S phase. The subcellular translocation of this protein during cell cyle is regulated through its phosphorylation by Cdks. Transcription of this protein was reported to be regulated in response to mitogenic signals through transcriptional control mechanism involving E2F proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184302	 The protein encoded by this gene is a homeobox protein that is similar to the Drosophila 'sine oculis' gene product. This gene is found in a cluster of related genes on chromosome 14 and is thought to be involved in eye development. Defects in this gene are a cause of isolated microphthalmia with cataract type 2 (MCOPCT2). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171119	 Neurturin is a member of the TGF-beta subfamily, TRN. This gene signals through RET and a GPI-linked coreceptor, and promotes survival of neuronal populations. A neurturin mutation has been described in a family with Hirschsprung Disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170927	 The protein encoded by this gene is predicted to have a single transmembrane (TM)-spanning domain and multiple copies of an immunoglobulin-like plexin-transcription-factor domain. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Other alternatively spliced transcripts have been described, but the full length sequences have not been determined. Several of these transcripts are predicted to encode truncated products which lack the TM and may be secreted. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease, also known as polycystic kidney and hepatic disease-1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164258	 This gene encodes an accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), or NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase, the first multi-subunit enzyme complex of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Complex I plays a vital role in cellular ATP production, the primary source of energy for many crucial processes in living cells. It removes electrons from NADH and passes them by a series of different protein-coupled redox centers to the electron acceptor ubiquinone. In well-coupled mitochondria, the electron flux leads to ATP generation via the building of a proton gradient across the inner membrane. Complex I is composed of at least 41 subunits, of which 7 are encoded by the mitochondrial genome and the remainder by nuclear genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197594	 This gene is a member of the ecto-nucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase (ENPP) family. The encoded protein is a type II transmembrane glycoprotein comprising two identical disulfide-bonded subunits. This protein has broad specificity and cleaves a variety of substrates, including phosphodiester bonds of nucleotides and nucleotide sugars and pyrophosphate bonds of nucleotides and nucleotide sugars. This protein may function to hydrolyze nucleoside 5' triphosphates to their corresponding monophosphates and may also hydrolyze diadenosine polyphosphates. Mutations in this gene have been associated with 'idiopathic' infantile arterial calcification, ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament of the spine (OPLL), and insulin resistance. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124253	 This gene is a main control point for the regulation of gluconeogenesis. The cytosolic enzyme encoded by this gene, along with GTP, catalyzes the formation of phosphoenolpyruvate from oxaloacetate, with the release of carbon dioxide and GDP. The expression of this gene can be regulated by insulin, glucocorticoids, glucagon, cAMP, and diet. Defects in this gene are a cause of cytosolic phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase deficiency. A mitochondrial isozyme of the encoded protein also has been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204385	 The protein encoded by this gene may be a sodium-dependent transmembrane transport protein involved in the uptake of choline by cholinergic neurons. Defects in this gene can cause sialidosis, a lysosomal storage disease. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000100030	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. The activation of this kinase requires its phosphorylation by upstream kinases. Upon activation, this kinase translocates to the nucleus of the stimulated cells, where it phosphorylates nuclear targets. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein, but differing in the UTRs, have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169031	 Type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes, is a multimeric protein composed of 3 alpha subunits. These subunits are encoded by 6 different genes, alpha 1 through alpha 6, each of which can form a triple helix structure with 2 other subunits to form type IV collagen. This gene encodes alpha 3. In the Goodpasture syndrome, autoantibodies bind to the collagen molecules in the basement membranes of alveoli and glomeruli. The epitopes that elicit these autoantibodies are localized largely to the non-collagenous C-terminal domain of the protein. A specific kinase phosphorylates amino acids in this same C-terminal region and the expression of this kinase is upregulated during pathogenesis. This gene is also linked to an autosomal recessive form of Alport syndrome. The mutations contributing to this syndrome are also located within the exons that encode this C-terminal region. Like the other members of the type IV collagen gene family, this gene is organized in a head-to-head conformation with another type IV collagen gene so that each gene pair shares a common promoter. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000112144	 Eukaryotic protein kinases are enzymes that belong to a very extensive family of proteins which share a conserved catalytic core common with both serine/threonine and tyrosine protein kinases. This gene encodes an intestinal serine/threonine kinase harboring a dual phosphorylation site found in mitogen-activating protein (MAP) kinases. The protein localizes to the intestinal crypt region and is thought to be important in intestinal epithelial cell proliferation and differentiation. Alternative splicing has been observed at this locus and two variants, encoding the same isoform, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105928	 Hearing impairment is a heterogeneous condition with over 40 loci described. The protein encoded by this gene is expressed in fetal cochlea, however, its function is not known. Nonsyndromic hearing impairment is associated with a mutation in this gene. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000152591	 This gene encodes two principal proteins of the dentin extracellular matrix of the tooth. The preproprotein is secreted by odontoblasts and cleaved into dentin sialoprotein and dentin phosphoprotein. Dentin phosphoprotein is thought to be involved in the biomineralization process of dentin. Mutations in this gene have been associated with dentinogenesis imperfecta-1; in some individuals, dentinogenesis imperfecta occurs in combination with an autosomal dominant form of deafness. Allelic differences due to repeat polymorphisms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137674	 Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. The protein encoded by this gene degrades amelogenin, the major protein component of dental enamel matrix, and thus thought to play a role in tooth enamel formation. A mutation in this gene, which alters the normal splice pattern and results in premature termination of the encoded protein, has been associated with amelogenesis imperfecta. This gene is part of a cluster of MMP genes located on chromosome 11q22.3. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000099940	 This gene, a member of the SNAP25 gene family, encodes a protein involved in multiple membrane trafficking steps. Two other members of this gene family, SNAP23 and SNAP25, encode proteins that bind a syntaxin protein and mediate synaptic vesicle membrane docking and fusion to the plasma membrane. The protein encoded by this gene binds tightly to multiple syntaxins and is localized to intracellular membrane structures rather than to the plasma membrane. While the protein is mostly membrane-bound, a significant fraction of it is found free in the cytoplasm. Use of multiple polyadenylation sites has been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000121653	 This gene encodes a regulator of the pancreatic beta-cell function. It is highly similar to JIP-1, a mouse protein known to be a regulator of c-Jun amino-terminal kinase (Mapk8). This protein has been shown to prevent MAPK8 mediated activation of transcription factors, and to decrease IL-1 beta and MAP kinase kinase 1 (MEKK1) induced apoptosis in pancreatic beta cells. This protein also functions as a DNA-binding transactivator of the glucose transporter GLUT2. RE1-silencing transcription factor (REST) is reported to repress the expression of this gene in insulin-secreting beta cells. This gene is found to be mutated in a type 2 diabetes family, and thus is thought to be a susceptibility gene for type 2 diabetes. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000167749	 Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiological functions. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicated in carcinogenesis and some have potential as novel cancer and other disease biomarkers. This gene is one of the fifteen kallikrein subfamily members located in a cluster on chromosome 19. In some tissues its expression is hormonally regulated. The expression pattern of a similar mouse protein in murine developing teeth supports a role for the protein in the degradation of enamel proteins. Alternate splice variants for this gene have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000075856	 The protein encoded by this gene is an RNA-binding nuclear protein that is a tumor-rejection antigen. This antigen possesses tumor epitopes capable of inducing HLA-A24-restricted and tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes in cancer patients and may be useful for specific immunotherapy. This gene product is found to be an important cellular factor for HIV-1 gene expression and viral replication. It also associates transiently with U6 and U4/U6 snRNPs during the recycling phase of the spliceosome cycle. This encoded protein is thought to be involved in the regulation of mRNA splicing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100934	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SEC23 subfamily of the SEC23/SEC24 family. It is part of a protein complex and found in the ribosome-free transitional face of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and associated vesicles. This protein has similarity to yeast Sec23p component of COPII. COPII is the coat protein complex responsible for vesicle budding from the ER. The encoded protein is suggested to play a role in the ER-Golgi protein trafficking. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000073792	 This gene encodes a member of the IGF-II mRNA-binding protein (IMP) family. The protein encoded by this gene contains several four KH domains and two RRM domains. It functions by binding to the 5' UTR of the insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2) mRNA and regulating IGF2 translation. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198836	 This gene product is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial protein with similarity to dynamin-related GTPases. It is a component of the mitochondrial network. Mutations in this gene have been associated with optic atrophy type 1, which is a dominantly inherited optic neuropathy resulting in progressive loss of visual acuity, leading in many cases to legal blindness. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000141579	 This gene encodes a protein with a nuclear localization site and a C2H2 zinc finger domain. Mutations in this gene have been associated with seborrhea-like dermatitis with psoriasiform elements. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000153208	 This gene is a member of the MER/AXL/TYRO3 receptor kinase family and encodes a transmembrane protein with two fibronectin type-III domains, two Ig-like C2-type (immunoglobulin-like) domains, and one tyrosine kinase domain. Mutations in this gene have been associated with disruption of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) phagocytosis pathway and onset of autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa (RP). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000087266	 The protein encoded by this gene has an N-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain, an SH3-binding proline-rich region, and a C-terminal SH2 domain. The protein binds to the SH3 domains of several proteins including the ABL1 and SYK protein tyrosine kinases , and functions as a cytoplasmic adaptor protein to positively regulate transcriptional activity in T, natural killer (NK), and basophilic cells. Mutations in this gene result in cherubism. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000153563	 The CD8 antigen is a cell surface glycoprotein found on most cytotoxic T lymphocytes that mediates efficient cell-cell interactions within the immune system. The CD8 antigen acts as a coreceptor with the T-cell receptor on the T lymphocyte to recognize antigens displayed by an antigen presenting cell in the context of class I MHC molecules. The coreceptor functions as either a homodimer composed of two alpha chains or as a heterodimer composed of one alpha and one beta chain. Both alpha and beta chains share significant homology to immunoglobulin variable light chains. This gene encodes the CD8 alpha chain. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000172530	 This gene encodes a protein that binds to matrix attachment regions. The protein forms a complex with p53 and negatively regulates p53 transcription, and functions as a tumor suppressor and cell cycle regulator. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000169891	 The product of this gene is part of a protein complex that regulates the endocytosis of growth factor receptors. The encoded protein directly interacts with a GTPase activating protein that functions downstream of the small G protein Ral. Its expression can negatively affect receptor internalization and inhibit growth factor signaling. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000068985	 This gene belongs to a family of genes that are expressed in a variety of tumors but not in normal tissues, except for the testis. Unlike the other gene family members, this gene does not encode an antigenic peptide. Nothing is presently known about the function of this protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000063601	 This gene encodes a member of the myotubularin related family of proteins. Members of this family contain the consensus sequence for the active site of protein tyrosine phosphatases. Alternatively spliced variants have been described but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147081	 The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. The encoded protein is localized to the sperm flagellum and may be involved in the regulation of sperm motility. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000179222	 This gene is a member of the melanoma antigen gene (MAGE) family. Most of the genes of this family encode tumor specific antigens that are not expressed in normal adult tissues except testis. Although the protein encoded by this gene shares strong homology with members of the MAGE family, it is expressed in almost all normal adult tissues. This gene has been demonstrated to be involved in the p75 neurotrophin receptor mediated programmed cell death pathway. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000180964	 This gene encodes a member of the transcription elongation factor A (SII)-like (TCEAL) gene family. Members of this family contain TFA domains and may function as nuclear phosphoproteins that modulate transcription in a promoter context-dependent manner. Multiple family members are located on the X chromosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding a single isoform. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147144	 This gene encodes a protein that contains a coiled-coil domain. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]. 
ENSG00000133134	 This gene belongs to the brain expressed X-linked gene family. The encoded protein interacts with the transcription factor LIM domain only 2 in a DNA-binding complex that recognizes the E-box element and promotes transcription. This gene has been found to be a tumor suppressor that is silenced in human glioma. In breast cancer cells, this gene product modulates apoptosis in response to estrogen and tamoxifen, and enhances the anti-proliferative effect of tamoxifen. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000147059	 This gene encodes one of three members of the DXF34 gene family, located in a 100-kb region of chromosome Xp11.21. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000075239	 This gene encodes a mitochondrially localized enzyme that catalyzes the reversible formation of acetoacetyl-CoA from two molecules of acetyl-CoA. Defects in this gene are associated with 3-ketothiolase deficiency, an inborn error of isoleucine catabolism characterized by urinary excretion of 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric acid, 2-methylacetoacetic acid, tiglylglycine, and butanone. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000124212	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. However, this protein is considered a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily on the basis of sequence similarity rather than functional similarity. This endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein catalyzes the conversion of prostglandin H2 to prostacyclin (prostaglandin I2), a potent vasodilator and inhibitor of platelet aggregation. An imbalance of prostacyclin and its physiological antagonist thromboxane A2 contribute to the development of myocardial infarction, stroke, and atherosclerosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115524	 This gene encodes subunit 1 of the splicing factor 3b protein complex. Splicing factor 3b, together with splicing factor 3a and a 12S RNA unit, forms the U2 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins complex (U2 snRNP). The splicing factor 3b/3a complex binds pre-mRNA upstream of the intron's branch site in a sequence independent manner and may anchor the U2 snRNP to the pre-mRNA. Splicing factor 3b is also a component of the minor U12-type spliceosome. The carboxy-terminal two-thirds of subunit 1 have 22 non-identical, tandem HEAT repeats that form rod-like, helical structures. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000099995	 This gene encodes subunit 1 of the splicing factor 3a protein complex. The splicing factor 3a heterotrimer includes subunits 1, 2 and 3 and is necessary for the in vitro conversion of 15S U2 snRNP into an active 17S particle that performs pre-mRNA splicing. Subunit 1 belongs to the SURP protein family; named for the SURP (also called SWAP or Suppressor-of-White-APricot) motifs that are thought to mediate RNA binding. Subunit 1 has tandemly repeated SURP motifs in its amino-terminal half while its carboxy-terminal half contains a proline-rich region and a ubiquitin-like domain. Binding studies with truncated subunit 1 derivatives demonstrated that the two SURP motifs are necessary for binding to subunit 3 while contacts with subunit 2 may occur through sequences carboxy-terminal to the SURP motifs. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108474	 This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the second step of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) biosynthesis, which is the de-N-acetylation of N-acetylglucosaminylphosphatidylinositol (GlcNAc-PI). Study of a similar rat enzyme suggests that this protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000099810	 This gene encodes an enzyme that plays a major role in polyamine metabolism and is important for the salvage of both adenine and methionine. The encoded enzyme is deficient in many cancers because this gene and the tumor suppressor p16 gene are co-deleted. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene, but their full-length natures remain unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114491	 This gene encodes a uridine 5'-monophosphate synthase. The encoded protein is a bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the final two steps of the de novo pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway. The first reaction is carried out by the N-terminal enzyme orotate phosphoribosyltransferase which converts orotic acid to orotidine-5'-monophosphate. The terminal reaction is carried out by the C-terminal enzyme OMP decarboxylase which converts orotidine-5'-monophosphate to uridine monophosphate. Defects in this gene are the cause of hereditary orotic aciduria. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000197888	 This gene encodes a member of the uridine diphosphoglucuronosyltransferase protein family. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the transfer of glucuronic acid from uridine diphosphoglucuronic acid to a diverse array of substrates including steroid hormones and lipid-soluble drugs. This process, known as glucuronidation, is an intermediate step in the metabolism of steroids. Copy number variation in this gene is associated with susceptibility to osteoporosis.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000183733	 This gene encodes a protein that functions in postnatal oocyte-specific gene expression. The protein is a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor that regulates multiple oocyte-specific genes, including genes involved in folliculogenesis and those that encode the zona pellucida. Mutations in this gene cause premature ovarian failure type 6. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000107290	 This gene encodes a protein named for its homology to the Sen1p protein of fungi which has RNA helicase activity encoded by a domain at the C-terminal end of the protein. The protein encoded by this gene contains a DNA/RNA helicase domain at its C-terminal end which suggests that it may be involved in both DNA and RNA processing. Mutations in this gene have been associated with ataxia-ocular apraxia-2 (AOA2) and an autosomal dominant form of juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS4). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101282	 This gene encodes a member of the R-spondin family of proteins that share a common domain organization consisting of a signal peptide, cysteine-rich/furin-like domain, thrombospondin domain and a C-terminal basic region. The encoded protein may be involved in activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathways. Mutations in this gene are associated with anonychia congenital. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000150594	 Alpha-2-adrenergic receptors are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. They include 3 highly homologous subtypes: alpha2A, alpha2B, and alpha2C. These receptors have a critical role in regulating neurotransmitter release from sympathetic nerves and from adrenergic neurons in the central nervous system. Studies in mouse revealed that both the alpha2A and alpha2C subtypes were required for normal presynaptic control of transmitter release from sympathetic nerves in the heart and from central noradrenergic neurons; the alpha2A subtype inhibited transmitter release at high stimulation frequencies, whereas the alpha2C subtype modulated neurotransmission at lower levels of nerve activity. This gene encodes alpha2A subtype and it contains no introns in either its coding or untranslated sequences. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000118137	 This gene encodes apolipoprotein A-I, which is the major protein component of high density lipoprotein (HDL) in plasma. The protein promotes cholesterol efflux from tissues to the liver for excretion, and it is a cofactor for lecithin cholesterolacyltransferase (LCAT) which is responsible for the formation of most plasma cholesteryl esters. This gene is closely linked with two other apolipoprotein genes on chromosome 11. Defects in this gene are associated with HDL deficiencies, including Tangier disease, and with systemic non-neuropathic amyloidosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165215	 Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and serving as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space. These junctions are comprised of sets of continuous networking strands in the outwardly facing cytoplasmic leaflet, with complementary grooves in the inwardly facing extracytoplasmic leaflet. The protein encoded by this intronless gene, a member of the claudin family, is an integral membrane protein and a component of tight junction strands. It is also a low-affinity receptor for Clostridium perfringens enterotoxin, and shares aa sequence similarity with a putative apoptosis-related protein found in rat. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178726	 The protein encoded by this intronless gene is an endothelial-specific type I membrane receptor that binds thrombin. This binding results in the activation of protein C, which degrades clotting factors Va and VIIIa and reduces the amount of thrombin generated. Mutations in this gene are a cause of thromboembolic disease, also known as inherited thrombophilia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105048	 This gene encodes a protein that is a subunit of troponin, which is a regulatory complex located on the thin filament of the sarcomere. This complex regulates striated muscle contraction in response to fluctuations in intracellular calcium concentration. This complex is composed of three subunits: troponin C, which binds calcium, troponin T, which binds tropomyosin, and troponin I, which is an inhibitory subunit. This protein is the slow skeletal troponin T subunit. Mutations in this gene cause nemaline myopathy type 5, also known as Amish nemaline myopathy, a neuromuscular disorder characterized by muscle weakness and rod-shaped, or nemaline, inclusions in skeletal muscle fibers which affects infants, resulting in death due to respiratory insufficiency, usually in the second year. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000177885	 The protein encoded by this gene binds the epidermal growth factor receptor and contains one SH2 domain and two SH3 domains. Its two SH3 domains direct complex formation with proline-rich regions of other proteins, and its SH2 domain binds tyrosine phosphorylated sequences. This gene is similar to the Sem5 gene of C.elegans, which is involved in the signal transduction pathway. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000153234	 This gene encodes a member of the steroid-thyroid hormone-retinoid receptor superfamily. The encoded protein may act as a transcription factor. Mutations in this gene have been associated with disorders related to dopaminergic dysfunction, including Parkinson disease, schizophernia, and manic depression. Misregulation of this gene may be associated with rheumatoid arthritis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162992	 This gene encodes a member of the NeuroD family of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors. The protein forms heterodimers with other bHLH proteins and activates transcription of genes that contain a specific DNA sequence known as the E-box. It regulates expression of the insulin gene, and mutations in this gene result in type II diabetes mellitus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000083720	 This gene encodes a member of the 3-oxoacid CoA-transferase gene family. The encoded protein is a homodimeric mitochondrial matrix enzyme that plays a central role in extrahepatic ketone body catabolism by catalyzing the reversible transfer of coenzyme A from succinyl-CoA to acetoacetate. Mutations in this gene are associated with succinyl CoA:3-oxoacid CoA transferase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114378	 This gene encodes a lysosomal hyaluronidase. Hyaluronidases intracellularly degrade hyaluronan, one of the major glycosaminoglycans of the extracellular matrix. Hyaluronan is thought to be involved in cell proliferation, migration and differentiation. This enzyme is active at an acidic pH and is the major hyaluronidase in plasma. Mutations in this gene are associated with mucopolysaccharidosis type IX, or hyaluronidase deficiency. The gene is one of several related genes in a region of chromosome 3p21.3 associated with tumor suppression. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147465	 The protein encoded by this gene plays a key role in the acute regulation of steroid hormone synthesis by enhancing the conversion of cholesterol into pregnenolone. This protein permits the cleavage of cholesterol into pregnenolone by mediating the transport of cholesterol from the outer mitochondrial membrane to the inner mitochondrial membrane. Mutations in this gene are a cause of congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia (CLAH), also called lipoid CAH. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126583	 Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases that can be activated by calcium and second messenger diacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways. PKC also serve as major receptors for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promoters. Each member of the PKC family has a specific expression profile and is believed to play distinct roles in cells. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the PKC family members. This protein kinase is expressed solely in the brain and spinal cord and its localization is restricted to neurons. It has been demonstrated that several neuronal functions, including long term potentiation (LTP) and long term depression (LTD), specifically require this kinase. Knockout studies in mice also suggest that this kinase may be involved in neuropathic pain development. Defects in this protein have been associated with neurodegenerative disorder spinocerebellar ataxia-14 (SCA14). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104419	 This gene is a member of the N-myc downregulated gene family which belongs to the alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily. The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic protein involved in stress responses, hormone responses, cell growth, and differentiation. The encoded protein is necessary for p53-mediated caspase activation and apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are a cause of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4D, and expression of this gene may be a prognostic indicator for several types of cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000106105	 This gene encodes glycyl-tRNA synthetase, one of the aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. The encoded enzyme is an (alpha)2 dimer which belongs to the class II family of tRNA synthetases. It has been shown to be a target of autoantibodies in the human autoimmune diseases, polymyositis or dermatomyositis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116688	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial membrane protein that participates in mitochondrial fusion and contributes to the maintenance and operation of the mitochondrial network. This protein is involved in the regulation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation, and it may play a role in the pathophysiology of obesity. Mutations in this gene cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2A2, and hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy VI, which are both disorders of the peripheral nervous system. Defects in this gene have also been associated with early-onset stroke. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134259	 This gene is a member of the NGF-beta family and encodes a secreted protein which homodimerizes and is incorporated into a larger complex. This protein has nerve growth stimulating activity and the complex is involved in the regulation of growth and the differentiation of sympathetic and certain sensory neurons. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy, type 5 (HSAN5), and dysregulation of this gene's expression is associated with allergic rhinitis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169247	 This gene encodes a protein with two N-terminal Src homology 3 (SH3) domains and 10 tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) motifs, and is a member of a small gene family. The gene product has been proposed to be an adapter or docking molecule. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal recessive Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4C, a childhood-onset neurodegenerative disease characterized by demyelination of motor and sensory neurons. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000004939	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of the anion exchanger (AE) family and is expressed in the erythrocyte plasma membrane, where it functions as a chloride/bicarbonate exchanger involved in carbon dioxide transport from tissues to lungs. The protein comprises two domains that are structurally and functionally distinct. The N-terminal 40kDa domain is located in the cytoplasm and acts as an attachment site for the red cell skeleton by binding ankyrin. The glycosylated C-terminal membrane-associated domain contains 12-14 membrane spanning segments and carries out the stilbene disulphonate-sensitive exchange transport of anions. The cytoplasmic tail at the extreme C-terminus of the membrane domain binds carbonic anhydrase II. The encoded protein associates with the red cell membrane protein glycophorin A and this association promotes the correct folding and translocation of the exchanger. This protein is predominantly dimeric but forms tetramers in the presence of ankyrin. Many mutations in this gene are known in man, and these mutations can lead to two types of disease: destabilization of red cell membrane leading to hereditary spherocytosis, and defective kidney acid secretion leading to distal renal tubular acidosis. Other mutations that do not give rise to disease result in novel blood group antigens, which form the Diego blood group system. Southeast Asian ovalocytosis (SAO, Melanesian ovalocytosis) results from the heterozygous presence of a deletion in the encoded protein and is common in areas where Plasmodium falciparum malaria is endemic. One null mutation in this gene is known, resulting in very severe anemia and nephrocalcinosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000064012	 This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes composed of a prodomain, a large protease subunit, and a small protease subunit. Activation of caspases requires proteolytic processing at conserved internal aspartic residues to generate a heterodimeric enzyme consisting of the large and small subunits. This protein is involved in the programmed cell death induced by Fas and various apoptotic stimuli. The N-terminal FADD-like death effector domain of this protein suggests that it may interact with Fas-interacting protein FADD. This protein was detected in the insoluble fraction of the affected brain region from Huntington disease patients but not in those from normal controls, which implicated the role in neurodegenerative diseases. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described, although not all variants have had their full-length sequences determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100146	 This gene encodes a member of the SOX (SRY-related HMG-box) family of transcription factors involved in the regulation of embryonic development and in the determination of the cell fate. The encoded protein may act as a transcriptional activator after forming a protein complex with other proteins. This protein acts as a nucleocytoplasmic shuttle protein and is important for neural crest and peripheral nervous system development. Mutations in this gene are associated with Waardenburg-Shah and Waardenburg-Hirschsprung disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128274	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the transfer of galactose to lactosylceramide to form globotriaosylceramide, which has been identified as the P(k) antigen of the P blood group system. The encoded protein, which is a type II membrane protein found in the Golgi, is also required for the synthesis of the bacterial verotoxins receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138668	 This gene belongs to the subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are nucleic acid binding proteins and they complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA). These proteins are associated with pre-mRNAs in the nucleus and appear to influence pre-mRNA processing and other aspects of mRNA metabolism and transport. While all of the hnRNPs are present in the nucleus, some seem to shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The hnRNP proteins have distinct nucleic acid binding properties. The protein encoded by this gene has two repeats of quasi-RRM domains that bind to RNAs. It localizes to both the nucleus and the cytoplasm. This protein is implicated in the regulation of mRNA stability. Alternative splicing of this gene results in four transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163513	 This gene encodes a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family and the TGFB receptor subfamily. The encoded protein is a transmembrane protein that has a protein kinase domain, forms a heterodimeric complex with another receptor protein, and binds TGF-beta. This receptor/ligand complex phosphorylates proteins, which then enter the nucleus and regulate the transcription of a subset of genes related to cell proliferation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Marfan Syndrome, Loeys-Deitz Aortic Aneurysm Syndrome, and the development of various types of tumors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100416	 This gene is a member of the trmU family. It encodes a mitochondria-specific tRNA-modifying enzyme that is required for the 2-thio modification of 5-taurinomethyl-2-thiouridine tRNA-Lys on the wobble position of the anticodon. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000010610	 This gene encodes a membrane glycoprotein of T lymphocytes that interacts with major histocompatibility complex class II antigenes and is also a receptor for the human immunodeficiency virus. This gene is expressed not only in T lymphocytes, but also in B cells, macrophages, and granulocytes. It is also expressed in specific regions of the brain. The protein functions to initiate or augment the early phase of T-cell activation, and may function as an important mediator of indirect neuronal damage in infectious and immune-mediated diseases of the central nervous system. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000120738	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the EGR family of C2H2-type zinc-finger proteins. It is a nuclear protein and functions as a transcriptional regulator. The products of target genes it activates are required for differentitation and mitogenesis. Studies suggest this is a cancer suppresor gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198173	 This gene encodes a product belonging to a family of proteins with unknown function. The coding sequence of this family member includes several tandemly repeated regions. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000147324	 Identified in a human 8p amplicon, this gene is a potential oncogene whose expression is enhanced in some malignant fibrous histiocytomas (MFH). The primary structure of its product includes an ATP/GTP-binding site, three leucine zipper domains, and a leucine-rich tandem repeat, which are structural or functional elements for interactions among proteins related to the cell cycle, and which suggest that overexpression might be oncogenic with respect to MFH. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000150527	 The protein encoded by this gene is a tumor-associated antigen found in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and several other cancers. Autoantibodies against the encoded protein have been found in some cancers. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000168040	 The protein encoded by this gene is an adaptor molecule that interacts with various cell surface receptors and mediates cell apoptotic signals. Through its C-terminal death domain, this protein can be recruited by TNFRSF6/Fas-receptor, tumor necrosis factor receptor, TNFRSF25, and TNFSF10/TRAIL-receptor, and thus it participates in the death signaling initiated by these receptors. Interaction of this protein with the receptors unmasks the N-terminal effector domain of this protein, which allows it to recruit caspase-8, and thereby activate the cysteine protease cascade. Knockout studies in mice also suggest the importance of this protein in early T cell development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000103197	 Mutations in this gene lead to tuberous sclerosis complex. Its gene product is believed to be a tumor suppressor and is able to stimulate specific GTPases. The protein associates with hamartin in a cytosolic complex, possibly acting as a chaperone for hamartin. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162009	 Somatostatin and its related peptide cortistatin exert multiple biological actions on normal and tumoral tissue targets by interacting with somatostatin receptors (SSTRs). The protein encoded by this gene is one of the SSTRs, which is a multi-pass membrane protein and belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which inhibit adenylyl cyclase, and different regions of this receptor molecule are required for the activation of different signaling pathways. A mutation in this gene results in somatostatin analog resistance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified in this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000178235	 This intronless gene encodes a member of the SLITRK protein family. These proteins are integral membrane proteins that are characterized by two N-terminal leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domains and a C-terminal region that shares homology with trk neurotrophin receptors. However, the protein encoded by this gene lacks the region of homology to neurotrophin receptors. The protein is thought to be involved in neurite outgrowth. Mutations in this gene may be associated with Tourette syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000112116	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that shares sequence similarity with IL17. This cytokine is expressed by activated T cells, and has been shown to stimulate the production of several other cytokines, including IL6, IL8, and CSF2/GM_CSF. This cytokine is also found to inhibit the angiogenesis of endothelial cells and induce endothelial cells to produce IL2, TGFB1/TGFB, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000072364	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the AF4 family of transcription factors involved in leukemia. It is a component of the positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) complex. A chromosomal translocation involving this gene and MLL gene on chromosome 11 is found in infant acute lymphoblastic leukemia with ins(5;11)(q31;q31q23). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000165462	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a paired-like homeodomain most similar to that of the Drosophila aristaless gene product. The encoded protein plays a central role in development of the autonomic nervous system. It regulates the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine beta-hydroxylase, two catecholaminergic biosynthetic enzymes essential for the differentiation and maintenance of the noradrenergic neurotransmitter phenotype. The encoded protein has also been shown to regulate transcription of the alpha3 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor gene. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115275	 This gene encodes the first enzyme in the N-linked oligosaccharide processing pathway. The enzyme cleaves the distal alpha-1,2-linked glucose residue from the Glc(3)-Man(9)-GlcNAc(2) oligosaccharide precursor. This protein is located in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum. Defects in this gene are a cause of type IIb congenital disorder of glycosylation (CDGIIb). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000164172	 Eukaryotic molybdoenzymes use a unique molybdenum cofactor (MoCo) consisting of a pterin, termed molybdopterin, and the catalytically active metal molybdenum. MoCo is synthesized from precursor Z by the heterodimeric enzyme molybdopterin synthase. The large and small subunits of molybdopterin synthase are both encoded from this gene by overlapping open reading frames. The proteins were initially thought to be encoded from a bicistronic transcript. They are now thought to be encoded from monocistronic transcripts. Alternatively spliced transcripts have been found for this locus that encode the large and small subunits. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160219	 This gene is a member of the GRB2-associated binding protein gene family. These proteins are scaffolding/docking proteins that are involved in several growth factor and cytokine signaling pathways, and they contain a pleckstrin homology domain, and bind SHP2 tyrosine phosphatase and GRB2 adapter protein. The protein encoded by this gene facilitates macrophage differentiation. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159063	 This gene encodes a member of the ALG6/ALG8 glucosyltransferase family. The encoded protein catalyzes the addition of the second glucose residue to the lipid-linked oligosaccharide precursor for N-linked glycosylation of proteins. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ih (CDG-Ih). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112425	 This gene encodes a dual-specificity phosphatase that associates with polyribosomes. The encoded protein may be involved in the regulation of glycogen metabolism. Mutations in this gene have been associated with myoclonic epilepsy of Lafora. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000067048	 DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, and it has a homolog on the X chromosome. The gene mutation causes male infertility, Sertoli cell-only syndrome or severe hypospermatogenesis, suggesting that this gene plays a key role in the spermatogenic process. Alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000215301	 DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, which interacts specifically with hepatitis C virus core protein resulting a change in intracellular location. This gene has a homolog located in the nonrecombining region of the Y chromosome. The protein sequence is 91% identical between this gene and the Y-linked homolog. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000119523	 This gene encodes a member of the glycosyltransferase 1 family. The encoded protein acts as an alpha 1,3 mannosyltransferase, mannosylating Man(2)GlcNAc(2)-dolichol diphosphate and Man(1)GlcNAc(2)-dolichol diphosphate to form Man(3)GlcNAc(2)-dolichol diphosphate. Defects in this gene have been associated with congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ih (CDG-Ii). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000008196	 This gene encodes a member of the AP-2 family of transcription factors. AP-2 proteins form homo- or hetero-dimers with other AP-2 family members and bind specific DNA sequences. They are thought to stimulate cell proliferation and suppress terminal differentiation of specific cell types during embryonic development. Specific AP-2 family members differ in their expression patterns and binding affinity for different promoters. This protein functions as both a transcriptional activator and repressor. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal dominant Char syndrome, suggesting that this gene functions in the differentiation of neural crest cell derivatives. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196155	 The protein encoded by this gene contains multiple domains suggestive of a role in intracellular signaling and cytoskeleton dynamics at the Golgi apparatus. Mutations in this gene are associated with spinocerebellar ataxia 16q22-linked. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants, differing only in the 5' UTR, or encoding a different isoform, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000152822	 L-glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and activates both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is involved in most aspects of normal brain function and can be perturbed in many neuropathologic conditions. The metabotropic glutamate receptors are a family of G protein-coupled receptors, that have been divided into 3 groups on the basis of sequence homology, putative signal transduction mechanisms, and pharmacologic properties. Group I includes GRM1 and GRM5 and these receptors have been shown to activate phospholipase C. Group II includes GRM2 and GRM3 while Group III includes GRM4, GRM6, GRM7 and GRM8. Group II and III receptors are linked to the inhibition of the cyclic AMP cascade but differ in their agonist selectivities. The canonical alpha isoform of the metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 gene is a disulfide-linked homodimer whose activity is mediated by a G-protein-coupled phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms; some of which may have distinct functions. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143514	 This gene encodes a member of the ASPP (apoptosis-stimulating protein of p53) family of p53 interacting proteins. The protein contains four ankyrin repeats and an SH3 domain involved in protein-protein interactions. It is localized to the perinuclear region of the cytoplasm, and regulates apoptosis and cell growth through interactions with other regulatory molecules including members of the p53 family. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000142875	 cAMP is a signaling molecule important for a variety of cellular functions. cAMP exerts its effects by activating the cAMP-dependent protein kinase, which transduces the signal through phosphorylation of different target proteins. The inactive kinase holoenzyme is a tetramer composed of two regulatory and two catalytic subunits. cAMP causes the dissociation of the inactive holoenzyme into a dimer of regulatory subunits bound to four cAMP and two free monomeric catalytic subunits. Four different regulatory subunits and three catalytic subunits have been identified in humans. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family and is a catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000171759	 PAH encodes the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase that is the rate-limiting step in phenylalanine catabolism. Deficiency of this enzyme activity results in the autosomal recessive disorder phenylketonuria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000172062	 This gene is part of a 500 kb inverted duplication on chromosome 5q13. This duplicated region contains at least four genes and repetitive elements which make it prone to rearrangements and deletions. The repetitiveness and complexity of the sequence have also caused difficulty in determining the organization of this genomic region. The telomeric and centromeric copies of this gene are nearly identical and encode the same protein. However, mutations in this gene, the telomeric copy, are associated with spinal muscular atrophy; mutations in the centromeric copy do not lead to disease. The centromeric copy may be a modifier of disease caused by mutation in the telomeric copy. The critical sequence difference between the two genes is a single nucleotide in exon 7, which is thought to be an exon splice enhancer. Note that the nine exons of both the telomeric and centromeric copies are designated historically as exon 1, 2a, 2b, and 3-8. It is thought that gene conversion events may involve the two genes, leading to varying copy numbers of each gene. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. Within the nucleus, the protein localizes to subnuclear bodies called gems which are found near coiled bodies containing high concentrations of small ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs). This protein forms heteromeric complexes with proteins such as SIP1 and GEMIN4, and also interacts with several proteins known to be involved in the biogenesis of snRNPs, such as hnRNP U protein and the small nucleolar RNA binding protein. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000154511	 This gene encodes a member of the FAM69 family of cysteine-rich type II transmembrane proteins. These proteins localize to the endoplasmic reticulum but their specific functions are unknown. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000181784	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the pancreatic ribonuclease family. It plays an important role in mRNA cleavage and has marked specificity towards the 3' side of uridine nucleotides. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding the same protein. This gene and the gene that encodes angiogenin share promoters and 5' exons. Each gene splices to a unique downstream exon that contains its complete coding region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000121742	 Gap junctions allow the transport of ions and metabolites between the cytoplasm of adjacent cells. They are formed by two hemichannels, made up of six connexin proteins assembled in groups. Each connexin protein has four transmembrane segments, two extracellular loops, a cytoplasmic loop formed between the two inner transmembrane segments, and the N- and C-terminus both being in the cytoplasm. The specificity of the gap junction is determined by which connexin proteins comprise the hemichannel. In the past, connexin protein names were based on their molecular weight, however the new nomenclature uses sequential numbers based on which form (alpha or beta) of the gap junction is present. This gene encodes one of the connexin proteins. Mutations in this gene have been found in some forms of deafness and in some families with hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108984	 This gene encodes a member of the dual specificity protein kinase family, which functions as a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals. This protein phosphorylates and activates p38 MAP kinase in response to inflammatory cytokines or environmental stress. As an essential component of p38 MAP kinase mediated signal transduction pathway, this gene is involved in many cellular processes such as stress induced cell cycle arrest, transcription activation and apoptosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000078070	 This gene encodes the large subunit of 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase. This enzyme functions as a heterodimer and catalyzes the carboxylation of 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA to form 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA. Mutations in this gene are associated with 3-Methylcrotonylglycinuria, an autosomal recessive disorder of leucine catabolism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100987	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a paired-like homeodomain and binds to the core of the locus control region of the red/green visual pigment gene cluster. The encoded protein may regulate expression of the cone opsin genes early in development. Mutations in this gene can cause posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy and keratoconus. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000049541	 The elongation of primed DNA templates by DNA polymerase delta and epsilon requires the action of the accessory proteins, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and replication factor C (RFC). RFC, also called activator 1, is a protein complex consisting of five distinct subunits of 145, 40, 38, 37, and 36.5 kD. This gene encodes the 40 kD subunit, which has been shown to be responsible for binding ATP. Deletion of this gene has been associated with Williams syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113262	 L-glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and activates both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is involved in most aspects of normal brain function and can be perturbed in many neuropathologic conditions. The metabotropic glutamate receptors are a family of G protein-coupled receptors, that have been divided into 3 groups on the basis of sequence homology, putative signal transduction mechanisms, and pharmacologic properties. Group I includes GRM1 and GRM5 and these receptors have been shown to activate phospholipase C. Group II includes GRM2 and GRM3 while Group III includes GRM4, GRM6, GRM7 and GRM8. Group II and III receptors are linked to the inhibition of the cyclic AMP cascade but differ in their agonist selectivities. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000161653	 The N-acetylglutamate synthase gene encodes a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the formation of N-acetylglutamate (NAG) from glutamate and acetyl coenzyme-A. NAG is a cofactor of carbamyl phosphate synthetase I (CPSI), the first enzyme of the urea cycle in mammals. This gene may regulate ureagenesis by altering NAG availability and, thereby, CPSI activity. Deficiencies in N-acetylglutamate synthase have been associated with hyperammonemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124491	 This gene encodes the coagulation factor XIII A subunit. Coagulation factor XIII is the last zymogen to become activated in the blood coagulation cascade. Plasma factor XIII is a heterotetramer composed of 2 A subunits and 2 B subunits. The A subunits have catalytic function, and the B subunits do not have enzymatic activity and may serve as plasma carrier molecules. Platelet factor XIII is comprised only of 2 A subunits, which are identical to those of plasma origin. Upon cleavage of the activation peptide by thrombin and in the presence of calcium ion, the plasma factor XIII dissociates its B subunits and yields the same active enzyme, factor XIIIa, as platelet factor XIII. This enzyme acts as a transglutaminase to catalyze the formation of gamma-glutamyl-epsilon-lysine crosslinking between fibrin molecules, thus stabilizing the fibrin clot. It also crosslinks alpha-2-plasmin inhibitor, or fibronectin, to the alpha chains of fibrin. Factor XIII deficiency is classified into two categories: type I deficiency, characterized by the lack of both the A and B subunits; and type II deficiency, characterized by the lack of the A subunit alone. These defects can result in a lifelong bleeding tendency, defective wound healing, and habitual abortion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163581	 Glucose transporter 2 isoform is an integral plasma membrane glycoprotein of the liver, islet beta cells, intestine, and kidney epithelium. It mediates facilitated bidirectional glucose transport. Because of its low affinity for glucose, it has been suggested as a glucose sensor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106003	 This gene is a member of the fringe gene family which also includes radical and manic fringe genes. They all encode evolutionarily conserved glycosyltransferases that act in the Notch signaling pathway to define boundaries during embryonic development. While their genomic structure is distinct from other glycosyltransferases, fringe proteins have a fucose-specific beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity that leads to elongation of O-linked fucose residues on Notch, which alters Notch signaling. This gene product is predicted to be a single-pass type II Golgi membrane protein but it may also be secreted and proteolytically processed like the related proteins in mouse and Drosophila (PMID: 9187150). Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive spondylocostal dysostosis 3. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000101162	 This gene encodes a member of the beta tubulin protein family. Beta tubulins are one of two core protein families (alpha and beta tubulins) that heterodimerize and assemble to form microtubules. This protein is specifically expressed in platelets and megakaryocytes and may be involved in proplatelet production and platelet release. A mutations in this gene is associated with autosomal dominant macrothrombocytopenia. Two pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosome Y.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000171051	 This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor of mammalian phagocytic cells that is a member of the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. The protein mediates the response of phagocytic cells to invasion of the host by microorganisms and is important in host defense and inflammation.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000034152	 The protein encoded by this gene is a dual specificity protein kinase that belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family. This kinase is activated by mitogenic and environmental stress, and participates in the MAP kinase-mediated signaling cascade. It phosphorylates and thus activates MAPK14/p38-MAPK. This kinase can be activated by insulin, and is necessary for the expression of glucose transporter. Expression of RAS oncogene is found to result in the accumulation of the active form of this kinase, which thus leads to the constitutive activation of MAPK14, and confers oncogenic transformation of primary cells. The inhibition of this kinase is involved in the pathogenesis of Yersina pseudotuberculosis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode distinct isoforms have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000077498	 The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the first 2 steps, and at least 1 subsequent step, in the conversion of tyrosine to melanin. The enzyme has both tyrosine hydroxylase and dopa oxidase catalytic activities, and requires copper for function. Mutations in this gene result in oculocutaneous albinism, and nonpathologic polymorphisms result in skin pigmentation variation. The human genome contains a pseudogene similar to the 3' half of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000140521	 Mitochondrial DNA polymerase is heterotrimeric, consisting of a homodimer of accessory subunits plus a catalytic subunit. The protein encoded by this gene is the catalytic subunit of mitochondrial DNA polymerase. The encoded protein contains a polyglutamine tract near its N-terminus that may be polymorphic. Defects in this gene are a cause of progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial DNA deletions 1 (PEOA1), sensory ataxic neuropathy dysarthria and ophthalmoparesis (SANDO), Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome (AHS), and mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy syndrome (MNGIE). Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132437	 The encoded protein catalyzes the decarboxylation of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) to dopamine, L-5-hydroxytryptophan to serotonin and L-tryptophan to tryptamine. Defects in this gene are the cause of aromatic L-amino-acid decarboxylase deficiency (AADCD). AADCD deficiency is an inborn error in neurotransmitter metabolism that leads to combined serotonin and catecholamine deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000150787	 The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the elimination of inorganic triphosphate from dihydroneopterin triphosphate, which is the second and irreversible step in the biosynthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin from GTP. Tetrahydrobiopterin, also known as BH(4), is an essential cofactor and regulator of various enzyme activities, including enzymes involved in serotonin biosynthesis and NO synthase activity. Mutations in this gene result in hyperphenylalaninemia. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000163536	 This gene encodes a member of the serpin superfamily of serine proteinase inhibitors. The protein is primarily secreted by axons in the brain, and preferentially reacts with and inhibits tissue-type plasminogen activator. It is thought to play a role in the regulation of axonal growth and the development of synaptic plasticity. Mutations in this gene result in familial encephalopathy with neuroserpin inclusion bodies (FENIB), which is a dominantly inherited form of familial encephalopathy and epilepsy characterized by the accumulation of mutant neuroserpin polymers. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182253	 The protein encoded by this gene is an intermediate filament (IF) family member. IF proteins are cytoskeletal proteins that confer resistance to mechanical stress and are encoded by a dispersed multigene family. This protein has been found to form a linkage between desmin, which is a subunit of the IF network, and the extracellular matrix, and provides an important structural support in muscle. Two alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165091	 This gene is considered a member of a gene family predicted to encode transmembrane proteins. The specific function of this gene is unknown; however, it is known to be required for normal function of cochlear hair cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with progressive postlingual hearing loss and profound prelingual deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115648	 This gene encodes a member of the exophilin subfamily of Rab effector proteins. The protein forms a ternary complex with the small Ras-related GTPase Rab27A in its GTP-bound form and the motor protein myosin Va. A similar protein complex in mouse functions to tether pigment-producing organelles called melanosomes to the actin cytoskeleton in melanocytes, and is required for visible pigmentation in the hair and skin. A mutation in this gene results in Griscelli syndrome type 3, which is characterized by a silver-gray hair color and abnormal pigment distribution in the hair shaft. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106236	 This gene encodes a member of the family of neuronal petraxins, synaptic proteins that are related to C-reactive protein. This protein is involved in excitatory synapse formation. It also plays a role in clustering of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors at established synapses, resulting in non-apoptotic cell death of dopaminergic nerve cells. Up-regulation of this gene in Parkinson disease (PD) tissues suggests that the protein may be involved in the pathology of PD. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000204086	 This gene encodes a single-stranded DNA-binding protein that is the 30-kDa subunit of the replication protein A complex. Replication protein A is an essential factor for DNA double-strand break repair and cell cycle checkpoint activation. The encoded protein localizes to DNA repair foci and may be involved in the cellular DNA damage response. This protein may also play a role in inhibiting viral replication.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000145888	 The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of a pentameric inhibitory glycine receptor. The receptor mediates postsynaptic inhibition in the central nervous system. Defects in this gene are a cause of startle disease (STHE), also known as hereditary hyperekplexia or congenital stiff-person syndrome. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000145912	 This gene is a member of the H/ACA snoRNPs (small nucleolar ribonucleoproteins) gene family. snoRNPs are involved in various aspects of rRNA processing and modification and have been classified into two families: C/D and H/ACA. The H/ACA snoRNPs also include the DKC1, NOLA1 and NOLA3 proteins. These four H/ACA snoRNP proteins localize to the dense fibrillar components of nucleoli and to coiled (Cajal) bodies in the nucleus. Both 18S rRNA production and rRNA pseudouridylation are impaired if any one of the four proteins is depleted. The four H/ACA snoRNP proteins are also components of the telomerase complex. This gene encodes a protein related to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Nhp2p. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000166228	 This gene encodes pterin-4 alpha-carbinolamine dehydratase, an enzyme involved in phenylalanine hydroxylation. A deficiency of this enzyme leads to hyperphenylalaninemia. The enzyme regulates the homodimerization of the transcription factor hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 (HNF1). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164344	  Plasma prekallikrein is a glycoprotein that participates in the surface-dependent activation of blood coagulation, fibrinolysis, kinin generation and inflammation.  It is synthesized in the liver and secreted into the blood as a single polypeptide chain.  Plasma prekallikrein is converted to plasma kallikrein by factor XIIa by the cleavage of an internal Arg-Ile bond.  Plasma kallikrein therefore is composed of a heavy chain and a light chain held together by a disulphide bond.  The heavy chain originates from the amino-terminal end of the zymogen and contains 4 tandem repeats of 90 or 91 amino acids.  Each repeat harbors a novel structure called the apple domain.  The heavy chain is required for the surface-dependent pro-coagulant activity of plasma kallikrein. The light chain contains the active site or catalytic domain of the enzyme and is homologous to the trypsin family of serine proteases. Plasma prekallikrein deficiency causes a prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time in patients. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167085	 Prohibitin is an evolutionarily conserved gene that is ubiquitously expressed.  It is thought to be a negative regulator of cell proliferation and may be a tumor suppressor.  Mutations in PHB have been linked to sporadic breast cancer.  Prohibitin is expressed as two transcripts with varying lengths of 3' untranslated region.  The longer transcript is present at higher levels in proliferating tissues and cells, suggesting that this longer 3' untranslated region may function as a trans-acting regulatory RNA. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137710	 Radixin is a cytoskeletal protein that may be important in linking actin to the plasma membrane. It is highly similar in sequence to both ezrin and moesin. The radixin gene has been localized by fluorescence in situ hybridization to 11q23. A truncated version representing a pseudogene (RDXP2) was assigned to Xp21.3. Another pseudogene that seemed to lack introns (RDXP1) was mapped to 11p by Southern and PCR analyses. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000096968	 This gene product is a protein tyrosine kinase involved in a specific subset of cytokine receptor signaling pathways. It has been found to be constituitively associated with the prolactin receptor and is required for responses to gamma interferon. Mice that do not express an active protein for this gene exhibit embryonic lethality associated with the absence of definitive erythropoiesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000243710	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AL139138.17 and AC093420.2. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000178538	 The protein encoded by this gene was initially named CA-related protein because of sequence similarity to other known carbonic anhydrase genes. However, the gene product lacks carbonic anhydrase activity (i.e., the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide). The gene product continues to carry a carbonic anhydrase designation based on clear sequence identity to other members of the carbonic anhydrase gene family. The absence of CA8 gene transcription in the cerebellum of the lurcher mutant in mice with a neurologic defect suggests an important role for this acatalytic form. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000087494	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the parathyroid hormone family. This hormone regulates endochondral bone development and epithelial-mesenchymal interactions during the formation of the mammary glands and teeth. This hormone is involved in lactation possibly by regulating the mobilization and transfer of calcium to the milk. The receptor of this hormone, PTHR1, is responsible for most cases of humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding two distinct isoforms have been observed. There is also evidence for alternative translation initiation from non-AUG (CUG and GUG) start sites, in-frame and downstream of the initiator AUG codon, to give rise to nuclear forms of this hormone. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000039537	 This gene encodes a component of the complement cascade. The encoded protein is part of the membrane attack complex that can be incorporated into the cell membrane and cause cell lysis. Mutations in this gene are associated with complement component-6 deficiency. Transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]. 
ENSG00000172795	 The protein encoded by this gene is a key component of an mRNA-decapping complex required for degradation of mRNAs, both in normal mRNA turnover, and in nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). It removes the 7-methyl guanine cap structure from mRNA, prior to its degradation from the 5' end. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000163600	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the CD28 and CTLA-4 cell-surface receptor family. It forms homodimers and plays an important role in cell-cell signaling, immune responses, and regulation of cell proliferation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000121966	 This gene encodes a CXC chemokine receptor specific for stromal cell-derived factor-1. The protein has 7 transmembrane regions and is located on the cell surface. It acts with the CD4 protein to support HIV entry into cells and is also highly expressed in breast cancer cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with WHIM (warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infections, and myelokathexis) syndrome. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000111732	 This gene encodes a RNA-editing deaminase that is a member of the cytidine deaminase family. The protein is involved in somatic hypermutation, gene conversion, and class-switch recombination of immunoglobulin genes. Defects in this gene are the cause of autosomal recessive hyper-IgM immunodeficiency syndrome type 2 (HIGM2). [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000123473	 This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein implicated in regulation of the mitotic spindle checkpoint, a regulatory pathway that monitors chromosome segregation during cell division to ensure the proper distribution of chromosomes to daughter cells. The protein is phosphorylated in mitosis and in response to activation of the spindle checkpoint, and disappears when cells transition to G1 phase. It interacts with a mitotic regulator, and its expression is required to efficiently activate the spindle checkpoint. It is proposed to regulate Cdc2 kinase activity during spindle checkpoint arrest. Chromosomal deletions that fuse this gene and the adjacent locus commonly occur in T cell leukemias, and are thought to arise through illegitimate V-(D)-J recombination events. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101773	 The protein encoded by this gene is a ubiquitously expressed nuclear protein. It is found among several proteins that bind directly to retinoblastoma protein, which regulates cell proliferation. This protein complexes with transcriptional co-repressor CTBP. It is also associated with BRCA1 and is thought to modulate the functions of BRCA1 in transcriptional regulation, DNA repair, and/or cell cycle checkpoint control. It is suggested that this gene may itself be a tumor suppressor acting in the same pathway as BRCA1. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. More transcript variants exist, but their full-length natures have not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000242265	 This is a paternally expressed imprinted gene that encodes transcripts containing two overlapping open reading frames (ORFs), RF1 and RF1/RF2, as well as retroviral-like slippage and pseudoknot elements, which can induce a -1 nucleotide frame-shift. ORF1 encodes a shorter isoform with a CCHC-type zinc finger motif containing a sequence characteristic of gag proteins of most retroviruses and some retrotransposons. The longer isoform is the result of -1 translational frame-shifting leading to translation of a gag/pol-like protein combining RF1 and RF2. It contains the active-site consensus sequence of the protease domain of pol proteins. Additional isoforms resulting from alternatively spliced transcript variants, as well as from use of upstream non-AUG (CUG) start codon, have been reported for this gene. Increased expression of this gene is associated with hepatocellular carcinomas. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000216588	 This gene encodes a protein that has one immunoglobulin (Ig) domain and is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. Proteins in this superfamily are usually found on or in cell membranes and act as receptors in immune response pathways. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000103316	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific and ubiquitous. The former class is also called phylogenetically-restricted crystallins. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. This gene encodes a taxon-specific crystallin protein that binds NADPH and has sequence similarity to bacterial ornithine cyclodeaminases. The encoded protein does not perform a structural role in lens tissue, and instead it binds thyroid hormone for possible regulatory or developmental roles. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal dominant non-syndromic deafness. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000128340	 The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase which belongs to the RAS superfamily of small GTP-binding proteins. Members of this superfamily appear to regulate a diverse array of cellular events, including the control of cell growth, cytoskeletal reorganization, and the activation of protein kinases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164708	 Phosphoglycerate mutase (PGAM) catalyzes the reversible reaction of 3-phosphoglycerate (3-PGA) to 2-phosphoglycerate (2-PGA) in the glycolytic pathway. The PGAM is a dimeric enzyme containing, in different tissues, different proportions of a slow-migrating muscle (MM) isozyme, a fast-migrating brain (BB) isozyme, and a hybrid form (MB). This gene encodes muscle-specific PGAM subunit. Mutations in this gene cause muscle phosphoglycerate mutase eficiency, also known as glycogen storage disease X. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000009724	 The Ra-reactive factor (RARF) is a complement-dependent bactericidal factor that binds to the Ra and R2 polysaccharides expressed by certain enterobacteria. Alternate splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding two RARF components that are involved in the mannan-binding lectin pathway of complement activation. The longer isoform is cleaved into two chains which form a heterodimer linked by a disulfide bond. The encoded proteins are members of the trypsin family of peptidases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188021	 This gene encodes an ubiquitin-like protein (ubiquilin) that shares high degree of similarity with related products in yeast, rat and frog. Ubiquilins contain a N-terminal ubiquitin-like domain and a C-terminal ubiquitin-associated domain. They physically associate with both proteasomes and ubiquitin ligases; and thus, are thought to functionally link the ubiquitination machinery to the proteasome to affect in vivo protein degradation. This ubiquilin has also been shown to bind the ATPase domain of the Hsp70-like Stch protein. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000198947	 The dystrophin gene is the largest gene found in nature, measuring 2.4 Mb. The gene was identified through a positional cloning approach, targeted at the isolation of the gene responsible for Duchenne (DMD) and Becker (BMD) Muscular Dystrophies. DMD is a recessive, fatal, X-linked disorder occurring at a frequency of about 1 in 3,500 new-born males. BMD is a milder allelic form. In general, DMD patients carry mutations which cause premature translation termination (nonsense or frame shift mutations), while in BMD patients dystrophin is reduced either in molecular weight (derived from in-frame deletions) or in expression level. The dystrophin gene is highly complex, containing at least eight independent, tissue-specific promoters and two polyA-addition sites. Furthermore, dystrophin RNA is differentially spliced, producing a range of different transcripts, encoding a large set of protein isoforms. Dystrophin (as encoded by the Dp427 transcripts) is a large, rod-like cytoskeletal protein which is found at the inner surface of muscle fibers. Dystrophin is part of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC), which bridges the inner cytoskeleton (F-actin) and the extra-cellular matrix. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000078098	 The protein encoded by this gene is a homodimeric integral membrane gelatinase belonging to the serine protease family. It is selectively expressed in reactive stromal fibroblasts of epithelial cancers, granulation tissue of healing wounds, and malignant cells of bone and soft tissue sarcomas. This protein is thought to be involved in the control of fibroblast growth or epithelial-mesenchymal interactions during development, tissue repair, and epithelial carcinogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120370	 This gene encodes a member of the golgin family, a group of coiled-coil proteins localized to the Golgi. The encoded protein may function in the secretory pathway. The encoded protein, which also localizes to the cytoplasm, was identified by interactions with the N-terminal kinase-like protein, and thus it may function in mitosis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with geroderma osteodysplastica. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000196154	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S100 family of proteins containing 2 EF-hand calcium-binding motifs. S100 proteins are localized in the cytoplasm and/or nucleus of a wide range of cells, and involved in the regulation of a number of cellular processes such as cell cycle progression and differentiation. S100 genes include at least 13 members which are located as a cluster on chromosome 1q21. This protein may function in motility, invasion, and tubulin polymerization. Chromosomal rearrangements and altered expression of this gene have been implicated in tumor metastasis. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143315	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that is located in the endoplasmic reticulum and is involved in GPI-anchor biosynthesis. The glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchor is a glycolipid which contains three mannose molecules in its core backbone. The GPI-anchor is found on many blood cells and serves to anchor proteins to the cell surface. This gene encodes a mannosyltransferase, GPI-MT-I, that transfers the first mannose to GPI on the lumenal side of the endoplasmic reticulum. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000144285	 The vertebrate sodium channel is a voltage-gated ion channel essential for the generation and propagation of action potentials, mainly in nerve and muscle. Voltage-sensitive sodium channels are heteromeric complexes consisting of a large central pore-forming glycosylated alpha subunit, and two smaller auxiliary beta subunits. This gene encodes the large alpha subunit, and mutations in this gene have been associated with several epilepsy, convulsion and migraine disorders. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. The RefSeq Project has decided to create four representative RefSeq records. Three of the transcript variants are supported by experimental evidence and the fourth contains alternate 5' untranslated exons, the exact combination of which have not been experimentally confirmed for the full-length transcript.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000080561	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. The protein localizes to microtubular structures in the cytoplasm. Alternate splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000169714	 This gene encodes a nucleic-acid binding protein with seven zinc-finger domains. The protein has a preference for binding single stranded DNA and RNA. The protein functions in cap-independent translation of ornithine decarboxylase mRNA, and may also function in sterol-mediated transcriptional regulation. A CCTG expansion in the first intron of this gene results in myotonic dystrophy type 2. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138107	 This gene encodes a 42.6 kD subunit of dynactin, a macromolecular complex consisting of 10-11 subunits ranging in size from 22 to 150 kD. Dynactin binds to both microtubules and cytoplasmic dynein. It is involved in a diverse array of cellular functions, including ER-to-Golgi transport, the centripetal movement of lysosomes and endosomes, spindle formation, chromosome movement, nuclear positioning, and axonogenesis. This subunit is present in 8-13 copies per dynactin molecule, and is the most abundant molecule in the dynactin complex. It is an actin-related protein, and is approximately 60% identical at the amino acid level to conventional actin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168447	 Nonvoltage-gated, amiloride-sensitive, sodium channels control fluid and electrolyte transport across epithelia in many organs. These channels are heteromeric complexes consisting of 3 subunits: alpha, beta, and gamma. This gene encodes the beta subunit, and mutations in this gene have been associated with pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 (PHA1), and Liddle syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000169807	 This gene is located in the nonrecombining portion of the Y chromosome, and expressed specifically in testis. It encodes a protein which has a low degree of similarity to protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 13. Two nearly identical copies of this gene exist within a palindromic region. This record represents the more centromeric copy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000176390	 This gene encodes a cytokine receptor-like factor that may negatively regulate cell cycle progression at the G0/G1 phase. Studies of the related rat protein suggest that it may regulate neuronal morphology and synaptic vesicle biogenesis. This gene is one of several genes located in the neurofibromatosis type I tumor suppressor region on the q arm of chromosome 17, a region that is subject to microdeletions, duplications, chromosomal breaks and rearrangements. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 2 and 5. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000169789	 This gene is located in the nonrecombining portion of the Y chromosome, and expressed specifically in testis. It encodes a protein which has a low degree of similarity to protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 13. Two nearly identical copies of this gene exist within a palindromic region. This record represents the more telomeric copy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166736	 The product of this gene belongs to the ligand-gated ion channel receptor superfamily. This gene encodes subunit A of the type 3 receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin), a biogenic hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter, a hormone, and a mitogen. This receptor causes fast, depolarizing responses in neurons after activation. It appears that the heteromeric combination of A and B subunits is necessary to provide the full functional features of this receptor, since either subunit alone results in receptors with very low conductance and response amplitude. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133048	 Chitinases catalyze the hydrolysis of chitin, which is an abundant glycopolymer found in insect exoskeletons and fungal cell walls. The glycoside hydrolase 18 family of chitinases includes eight human family members. This gene encodes a glycoprotein member of the glycosyl hydrolase 18 family. The protein lacks chitinase activity and is secreted by activated macrophages, chondrocytes, neutrophils and synovial cells. The protein is thought to play a role in the process of inflammation and tissue remodeling. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000148090	 The methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase, mitochondrial protein binds to the AU-rich element (ARE), a common element found in the 3' UTR of rapidly decaying mRNA such as c-fos, c-myc and granulocyte/ macrophage colony stimulating factor. ARE elements are involved in directing RNA to rapid degradation and deadenylation. AUH is also homologous to enol-CoA hydratase, an enzyme involved in fatty acid degradation, and has been shown to have intrinsic hydratase enzymatic activity. AUH is thus a bifunctional chimera between RNA binding and metabolic enzyme activity. A possible subcellular localization in the mitochondria has been demonstrated for the mouse homolog of this protein which shares 92% identity with the human protein. It has been suggested that AUH may have a novel role as a mitochondrial located AU-binding protein. Human AUH is expressed as a single mRNA species of 1.8 kb, and translated as a 40-kDa precursor protein which is subsequently processed to a 32-kDa mature form. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000129910	 This gene is a member of the cadherin superfamily of genes, encoding calcium-dependent intercellular adhesion glycoproteins. Cadherins consist of an extracellular domain containing 5 cadherin domains, a transmembrane region, and a conserved cytoplasmic domain. Transcripts from this particular cadherin are expressed in myoblasts and upregulated in myotubule-forming cells. The protein is thought to be essential for the control of morphogenetic processes, specifically myogenesis, and may provide a trigger for terminal muscle cell differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198848	 This gene encodes a member of the carboxylesterase large family. The family members are responsible for the hydrolysis or transesterification of various xenobiotics, such as cocaine and heroin, and endogenous substrates with ester, thioester, or amide bonds. They may participate in fatty acyl and cholesterol ester metabolism, and may play a role in the blood-brain barrier system. This enzyme is the major liver enzyme and functions in liver drug clearance. Mutations of this gene cause carboxylesterase 1 deficiency. Three transcript variants encoding three different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000105974	 The scaffolding protein encoded by this gene is the main component of the caveolae plasma membranes found in most cell types. The protein links integrin subunits to the tyrosine kinase FYN, an initiating step in coupling integrins to the Ras-ERK pathway and promoting cell cycle progression. The gene is a tumor suppressor gene candidate and a negative regulator of the Ras-p42/44 mitogen-activated kinase cascade. Caveolin 1 and caveolin 2 are located next to each other on chromosome 7 and express colocalizing proteins that form a stable hetero-oligomeric complex. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Berardinelli-Seip congenital lipodystrophy. Alternatively spliced transcripts encode alpha and beta isoforms of caveolin 1.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000167434	 Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. This gene encodes a glycosylphosphatidyl-inositol-anchored membrane isozyme expressed on the luminal surfaces of pulmonary (and certain other) capillaries and proximal renal tubules. Its exact function is not known; however, it may have a role in inherited renal abnormalities of bicarbonate transport. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163394	 This gene encodes a G-protein coupled receptor that binds non-sulfated members of the cholecystokinin (CCK) family of peptide hormones. This receptor is a major physiologic mediator of pancreatic enzyme secretion and smooth muscle contraction of the gallbladder and stomach. In the central and peripheral nervous system this receptor regulates satiety and the release of beta-endorphin and dopamine. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000149257	 This gene encodes a member of the serpin superfamily of serine proteinase inhibitors. The encoded protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and plays a role in collagen biosynthesis as a collagen-specific molecular chaperone. Autoantibodies to the encoded protein have been found in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Expression of this gene may be a marker for cancer, and nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with preterm birth caused by preterm premature rupture of membranes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 9. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000198835	 This gene encodes a gap junction protein. Gap junction proteins are members of a large family of homologous connexins and comprise 4 transmembrane, 2 extracellular, and 3 cytoplasmic domains. This gene plays a key role in central myelination and is involved in peripheral myelination in humans. Defects in this gene are the cause of autosomal recessive Pelizaeus-Merzbacher-like disease-1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112414	 This gene, which is upregulated in human umbilical vein endothelial cells, encodes a G protein-coupled receptor. Variations in this gene can affect a person's stature. Multiple transcript variants encoding different proteins have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000101421	 This gene encodes a member of the chromatin-modifying protein/charged multivesicular body protein (CHMP) protein family. The protein is part of the endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT) complex III (ESCRT-III), which functions in the sorting of endocytosed cell-surface receptors into multivesicular endosomes. The ESCRT machinery also functions in the final abscisson stage of cytokinesis and in the budding of enveloped viruses such as HIV-1. The three proteins of the CHMP4 subfamily interact with programmed cell death 6 interacting protein (PDCD6IP, also known as ALIX), which also functions in the ESCRT pathway. The CHMP4 proteins assemble into membrane-attached 5-nm filaments that form circular scaffolds and promote or stabilize outward budding. These polymers are proposed to help generate the luminal vesicles of multivesicular bodies. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal dominant posterior polar cataracts.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000181544	 The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2). The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementation group B. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175538	 Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. This gene encodes a member of the potassium channel, voltage-gated, isk-related subfamily. This member is a type I membrane protein, and a beta subunit that assembles with a potassium channel alpha-subunit to modulate the gating kinetics and enhance stability of the multimeric complex. This gene is prominently expressed in the kidney. A missense mutation in this gene is associated with hypokalemic periodic paralysis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106665	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of cytoplasmic linker proteins, which have been proposed to mediate the interaction between specific membranous organelles and microtubules. This protein was found to associate with both microtubules and an organelle called the dendritic lamellar body. This gene is hemizygously deleted in Williams syndrome, a multisystem developmental disorder caused by the deletion of contiguous genes at 7q11.23. Alternative splicing of this gene generates 2 transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124222	 This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the syntaxin or t-SNARE (target-SNAP receptor) family. These proteins are found on cell membranes and serve as the targets for V-SNARES (vesicle-SNAP receptors) permitting specific synaptic vesicle docking and fusion. A microdeletion in the region of chromosome 20 where this gene is located has been associated with pseudohypoparathyroidism type Ib. Multiple transcript variants have been found for this gene. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the neighboring downstream aminopeptidase-like 1 (NPEPL1) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000131931	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a THAP domain, a conserved DNA-binding domain. This protein colocalizes with the apoptosis response protein PAWR/PAR-4 in promyelocytic leukemia (PML) nuclear bodies, and functions as a proapoptotic factor that links PAWR to PML nuclear bodies. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184470	 Thioredoxin reductase (TR) is a dimeric NADPH-dependent FAD containing enzyme that catalyzes the reduction of the active site disulfide of thioredoxin and other substrates. TR is a member of a family of pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductases and is a key enzyme in the regulation of the intracellular redox environment. Three thioredoxin reductase genes have been found that encode selenocysteine containing proteins. This gene partially overlaps the COMT gene on chromosome 22. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102021	 This gene encodes a protein which contains two sets of heptad repeats in the N-terminus; the C-terminal most repeats form a leucine zipper domain. The presence of a leucine zipper domain suggests the protein may have DNA-binding activity and the protein has been shown to localize with a spliceosome protein (PMID: 12032826). [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000130224	 This gene encodes a member of the leucine-rich repeat and calponin homology domain-containing protein family. These family members contain multiple N-terminal leucine-rich repeats, in addition to a C-terminal calponin homology domain, a type of domain that mediates interactions with actin filaments. These proteins are conserved across animal species, and studies of a similar Drosophila protein indicate a function as a cytoskeletal scaffolding protein. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000109861	 The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase C1 family, is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase that appears to be a central coordinator for activation of many serine proteinases in immune/inflammatory cells. It is composed of a dimer of disulfide-linked heavy and light chains, both produced from a single protein precursor, and a residual portion of the propeptide acts as an intramolecular chaperone for the folding and stabilization of the mature enzyme. This enzyme requires chloride ions for activity and can degrade glucagon. Defects in the encoded protein have been shown to be a cause of Papillon-Lefevre syndrome, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by palmoplantar keratosis and periodontitis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000152137	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the superfamily of small heat-shock proteins containing a conservative alpha-crystallin domain at the C-terminal part of the molecule. The expression of this gene in induced by estrogen in estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer cells, and this protein also functions as a chaperone in association with Bag3, a stimulator of macroautophagy. Thus, this gene appears to be involved in regulation of cell proliferation, apoptosis, and carcinogenesis, and mutations in this gene have been associated with different neuromuscular diseases, including Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000090054	 Serine palmitoyltransferase, which consists of two different subunits, is the key enzyme in sphingolipid biosynthesis. It converts L-serine and palmitoyl-CoA to 3-oxosphinganine with pyridoxal 5'-phosphate as a cofactor. The product of this gene is the long chain base subunit 1 of serine palmitoyltransferase. Mutations in this gene were identified in patients with hereditary sensory neuropathy type 1. Alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140199	 This gene is a member of the K-Cl cotransporter (KCC) family. K-Cl cotransporters are integral membrane proteins that lower intracellular chloride concentrations below the electrochemical equilibrium potential. The proteins encoded by this gene are activated by cell swelling induced by hypotonic conditions. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Mutations in this gene are associated with agenesis of the corpus callosum with peripheral neuropathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119004	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases that catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein lacks one amino acid of the conserved heme binding site. It also lacks the conserved I-helix motif AGX(D,E)T, suggesting that its substrate may carry its own oxygen. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147889	 This gene generates several transcript variants which differ in their first exons. At least three alternatively spliced variants encoding distinct proteins have been reported, two of which encode structurally related isoforms known to function as inhibitors of CDK4 kinase. The remaining transcript includes an alternate first exon located 20 Kb upstream of the remainder of the gene; this transcript contains an alternate open reading frame (ARF) that specifies a protein which is structurally unrelated to the products of the other variants. This ARF product functions as a stabilizer of the tumor suppressor protein p53 as it can interact with, and sequester, the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase MDM2, a protein responsible for the degradation of p53. In spite of the structural and functional differences, the CDK inhibitor isoforms and the ARF product encoded by this gene, through the regulatory roles of CDK4 and p53 in cell cycle G1 progression, share a common functionality in cell cycle G1 control. This gene is frequently mutated or deleted in a wide variety of tumors, and is known to be an important tumor suppressor gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012].  Publication Note:  This RefSeq record includes a subset of the publications that are available for this gene. Please see the Gene record to access additional publications. 
ENSG00000106617	 AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a heterotrimeric protein composed of a catalytic alpha subunit, a noncatalytic beta subunit, and a noncatalytic regulatory gamma subunit. Various forms of each of these subunits exist, encoded by different genes. AMPK is an important energy-sensing enzyme that monitors cellular energy status and functions by inactivating key enzymes involved in regulating de novo biosynthesis of fatty acid and cholesterol. This gene is a member of the AMPK gamma subunit family and encodes a protein with four cystathionine beta-synthase domains. Mutations in this gene have been associated with ventricular pre-excitation (Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome), progressive conduction system disease and cardiac hypertrophy. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000177189	 This gene encodes a member of the RSK (ribosomal S6 kinase) family of serine/threonine kinases. This kinase contains 2 non-identical kinase catalytic domains and phosphorylates various substrates, including members of the mitogen-activated kinase (MAPK) signalling pathway. The activity of this protein has been implicated in controlling cell growth and differentiation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Coffin-Lowry syndrome (CLS). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000070087	 The protein encoded by this gene is a ubiquitous actin monomer-binding protein belonging to the profilin family. It is thought to regulate actin polymerization in response to extracellular signals. There are two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135929	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This mitochondrial protein oxidizes cholesterol intermediates as part of the bile synthesis pathway. Since the conversion of cholesterol to bile acids is the major route for removing cholesterol from the body, this protein is important for overall cholesterol homeostasis. Mutations in this gene cause cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, a rare autosomal recessive lipid storage disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198883	 This gene encodes a member of the paraneoplastic Ma antigen protein family. These proteins have been implicated in the development of paraneoplastic disorders resulting from an immune response directed against them. Paraneoplastic disorders are the result of an abnormal immune response to a tumor. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000198324	 This gene encodes a protein that localizes to the endosome and interacts with the enzyme, inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase OCRL-1. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000179542	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein belonging to the the SLITRK family. These family members include two N-terminal leucine-rich repeat domains similar to those found in the axonal growth-controlling protein SLIT, as well as C-terminal regions similar to neurotrophin receptors. Studies of an homologous protein in mouse suggest that this family member functions to suppress neurite outgrowth. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000119335	 The protein encoded by this gene inhibits acetylation of nucleosomes, especially histone H4, by histone acetylases (HAT). This inhibition is most likely accomplished by masking histone lysines from being acetylated, and the consequence is to silence HAT-dependent transcription. The encoded protein is part of a complex localized to the endoplasmic reticulum but is found in the nucleus and inhibits apoptosis following attack by cytotoxic T lymphocytes. This protein can also enhance DNA replication of the adenovirus genome. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000130779	 The protein encoded by this gene links endocytic vesicles to microtubules. This gene is highly expressed in Reed-Sternberg cells of Hodgkin disease. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000171316	 This gene encodes a protein that contains several helicase family domains. Mutations in this gene have been found in some patients with the CHARGE syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000091262	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). The encoded protein, a member of the MRP subfamily, is involved in multi-drug resistance. Mutations in this gene cause pseudoxanthoma elasticum. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different proteins have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140416	 This gene is a member of the tropomyosin family of highly conserved, widely distributed actin-binding proteins involved in the contractile system of striated and smooth muscles and the cytoskeleton of non-muscle cells. Tropomyosin is composed of two alpha-helical chains arranged as a coiled-coil. It is polymerized end to end along the two grooves of actin filaments and provides stability to the filaments. The encoded protein is one type of alpha helical chain that forms the predominant tropomyosin of striated muscle, where it also functions in association with the troponin complex to regulate the calcium-dependent interaction of actin and myosin during muscle contraction. In smooth muscle and non-muscle cells, alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding a range of isoforms have been described. Mutations in this gene are associated with type 3 familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000111245	 Thus gene encodes the regulatory light chain associated with cardiac myosin beta (or slow) heavy chain. Ca+ triggers the phosphorylation of regulatory light chain that in turn triggers contraction. Mutations in this gene are associated with mid-left ventricular chamber type hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159251	 Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various types of cell motility. Polymerization of globular actin (G-actin) leads to a structural filament (F-actin) in the form of a two-stranded helix. Each actin can bind to four others. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the actin family which is comprised of three main groups of actin isoforms, alpha, beta, and gamma. The alpha actins are found in muscle tissues and are a major constituent of the contractile apparatus. Defects in this gene have been associated with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC) and familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (FHC). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000073282	 This gene encodes a member of the p53 family of transcription factors. An animal model, p63 -/- mice, has been useful in defining the role this protein plays in the development and maintenance of stratified epithelial tissues. p63 -/- mice have several developmental defects which include the lack of limbs and other tissues, such as teeth and mammary glands, which develop as a result of interactions between mesenchyme and epithelium. Mutations in this gene are associated with ectodermal dysplasia, and cleft lip/palate syndrome 3 (EEC3); split-hand/foot malformation 4 (SHFM4); ankyloblepharon-ectodermal defects-cleft lip/palate; ADULT syndrome (acro-dermato-ungual-lacrimal-tooth); limb-mammary syndrome; Rap-Hodgkin syndrome (RHS); and orofacial cleft 8. Both alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters results in multiple transcript variants encoding different proteins. Many transcripts encoding different proteins have been reported but the biological validity and the full-length nature of these variants have not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101856	 This gene encodes a putative membrane-associated progesterone steroid receptor. The protein is expressed predominantly in the liver and kidney. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000095464	 This gene encodes the alpha-prime subunit of cone phosphodiesterase, which is composed of a homodimer of two alpha-prime subunits and 3 smaller proteins of 11, 13, and 15 kDa. Mutations in this gene are associated with cone dystrophy type 4 (COD4). [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000185551	 This gene encodes a member of the steroid thyroid hormone superfamily of nuclear receptors. The encoded protein is a ligand inducible transcription factor that is involved in the regulation of many different genes. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000187566	 The protein encoded by this gene is a single subunit E3 ubiquitin ligase. Laforin is polyubiquitinated by the encoded protein. Defects in this intronless gene lead to an accumulation of laforin and onset of Lafora disease, also known as progressive myoclonic epilepsy type 2 (EPM2).[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000186326	 The protein encoded by this gene functions as a regulator of G protein-coupled receptor signaling in phototransduction. Studies in bovine and mouse show that this gene is expressed only in the retina, and is localized in the rod outer segment membranes. This protein is associated with a heterotetrameric complex, specifically interacting with the regulator of G-protein signaling 9, and appears to function as the membrane anchor for the other largely soluble interacting partners. Mutations in this gene are associated with prolonged electroretinal response suppression (PERRS), also known as bradyopsia. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000141551	 This gene is a member of the casein kinase I (CKI) gene family whose members have been implicated in the control of cytoplasmic and nuclear processes, including DNA replication and repair. The encoded protein is highly similar to the mouse and rat CK1 delta homologs. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000146038	 This gene encodes a member of the doublecortin family. The protein encoded by this gene contains two doublecortin domains. The doublecortin domain has been demonstrated to bind tubulin and enhance microtubule polymerization. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Reading Disability (RD), also referred to as developmental dyslexia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000186795	 Potassium channels play a role in many cellular processes including maintenance of the action potential, muscle contraction, hormone secretion, osmotic regulation, and ion flow. This gene encodes a member of the superfamily of potassium channel proteins containing two pore-forming P domains and the encoded protein functions as an outward rectifying potassium channel. A mutation in this gene has been found to be associated with migraine with aura.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000062096	 This gene is a member of the sulfatase family, and more specifically, the arylsulfatase subfamily. Members of the subfamily share similarity in sequence and splice sites, and are clustered together on chromosome X, suggesting that they are derived from recent gene duplication events. Sulfatases are essential for the correct composition of bone and cartilage matrix. The activity of this protein, unlike that of arylsulfatase E, is not inhibited by warfarin. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000173575	 The CHD family of proteins is characterized by the presence of chromo (chromatin organization modifier) domains and SNF2-related helicase/ATPase domains. CHD genes alter gene expression possibly by modification of chromatin structure thus altering access of the transcriptional apparatus to its chromosomal DNA template. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000055118	 This gene encodes a voltage-activated potassium channel belonging to the eag family. It shares sequence similarity with the Drosophila ether-a-go-go (eag) gene. Mutations in this gene can cause long QT syndrome type 2 (LQT2). Transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167580	 This gene encodes a water channel protein located in the kidney collecting tubule. It belongs to the MIP/aquaporin family, some members of which are clustered together on chromosome 12q13. Mutations in this gene have been linked to autosomal dominant and recessive forms of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000086062	 This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT) genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfer galactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Glc, and Xyl. Each beta4GalT has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of different glycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, they have an N-terminal hydrophobic signal sequence that directs the protein to the Golgi apparatus and which then remains uncleaved to function as a transmembrane anchor. By sequence similarity, the beta4GalTs form four groups: beta4GalT1 and beta4GalT2, beta4GalT3 and beta4GalT4, beta4GalT5 and beta4GalT6, and beta4GalT7. This gene is unique among the beta4GalT genes because it encodes an enzyme that participates both in glycoconjugate and lactose biosynthesis. For the first activity, the enzyme adds galactose to N-acetylglucosamine residues that are either monosaccharides or the nonreducing ends of glycoprotein carbohydrate chains. The second activity is restricted to lactating mammary tissues where the enzyme forms a heterodimer with alpha-lactalbumin to catalyze UDP-galactose + D-glucose <=> UDP + lactose. The two enzymatic forms result from alternate transcription initiation sites and post-translational processing. Two transcripts, which differ only at the 5' end, with approximate lengths of 4.1 kb and 3.9 kb encode the same protein. The longer transcript encodes the type II membrane-bound, trans-Golgi resident protein involved in glycoconjugate biosynthesis. The shorter transcript encodes a protein which is cleaved to form the soluble lactose synthase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000172269	 The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the first step in the dolichol-linked oligosaccharide pathway for glycoprotein biosynthesis. This enzyme belongs to the glycosyltransferase family 4. This protein is an integral membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum. The congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ij is caused by mutation in the gene encoding this enzyme. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109572	 This gene encodes a member of the voltage-gated chloride channel (ClC) family. The encoded protein is present in all cell types and localized in plasma membranes and in intracellular vesicles. It is a multi-pass membrane protein which contains a ClC domain and two additional C-terminal CBS (cystathionine beta-synthase) domains. The ClC domain catalyzes the selective flow of Cl- ions across cell membranes, and the CBS domain may have a regulatory function. This protein plays a role in both acidification and transmitter loading of GABAergic synaptic vesicles, and in smooth muscle cell activation and neointima formation. This protein is required for lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)-activated Cl- current activity and fibroblast-to-myofibroblast differentiation. The protein activity is regulated by Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) in glioma cells. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000000419	  Dolichol-phosphate mannose (Dol-P-Man) serves as a donor of mannosyl residues on the lumenal side of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER).  Lack of Dol-P-Man results in defective surface expression of GPI-anchored proteins.  Dol-P-Man is synthesized from GDP-mannose and dolichol-phosphate on the cytosolic side of the ER by the enzyme dolichyl-phosphate mannosyltransferase.  Human DPM1 lacks a carboxy-terminal transmembrane domain and signal sequence and is regulated by DPM2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000153956	 This gene encodes a member of the alpha-2/delta subunit family, a protein in the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization and consist of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. Research on a highly similar protein in rabbit suggests the protein described in this record is cleaved into alpha-2 and delta subunits. Alternate transcriptional splice variants of this gene have been observed but have not been thoroughly characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186510	 This gene is a member of the CLC family of voltage-gated chloride channels. The encoded protein is predicted to have 12 transmembrane domains, and requires a beta subunit called barttin to form a functional channel. It is thought to function in salt reabsorption in the kidney and potassium recycling in the inner ear. The gene is highly similar to CLCNKB, which is located 10 kb downstream from this gene. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178802	 Phosphomannose isomerase catalyzes the interconversion of fructose-6-phosphate and mannose-6-phosphate and plays a critical role in maintaining the supply of D-mannose derivatives, which are required for most glycosylation reactions.  Mutations in the MPI gene were found in patients with carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome, type Ib. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102081	 The protein encoded by this gene binds RNA and is associated with polysomes. The encoded protein may be involved in mRNA trafficking from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. A trinucleotide repeat (CGG) in the 5' UTR is normally found at 6-53 copies, but an expansion to 55-230 repeats is the cause of fragile X syndrome. Expansion of the trinucleotide repeat may also cause one form of premature ovarian failure (POF1). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms and which are located in different cellular locations have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000154764	 This gene is a member of the WNT gene family, which consists of structurally related genes that encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is involved in the development of the anterior-posterior axis in the female reproductive tract, and also plays a critical role in uterine smooth muscle pattering and maintenance of adult uterine function. Mutations in this gene are associated with Fuhrmann and Al-Awadi/Raas-Rothschild/Schinzel phocomelia syndromes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182858	 This gene encodes a member of the glycosyltransferase 22 family. The encoded protein catalyzes the addition of the eighth mannose residue in an alpha-1,6 linkage onto the dolichol-PP-oligosaccharide precursor (dolichol-PP-Man(7)GlcNAc(2)) required for protein glycosylation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ig (CDG-Ig)characterized by abnormal N-glycosylation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165474	 This gene encodes a member of the gap junction protein family. The gap junctions were first characterized by electron microscopy as regionally specialized structures on plasma membranes of contacting adherent cells. These structures were shown to consist of cell-to-cell channels that facilitate the transfer of ions and small molecules between cells. The gap junction proteins, also known as connexins, purified from fractions of enriched gap junctions from different tissues differ. According to sequence similarities at the nucleotide and amino acid levels, the gap junction proteins are divided into two categories, alpha and beta. Mutations in this gene are responsible for as much as 50% of pre-lingual, recessive deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000176619	 This gene encodes a B type nuclear lamin. The nuclear lamina consists of a two-dimensional matrix of proteins located next to the inner nuclear membrane. The lamin family of proteins make up the matrix and are highly conserved in evolution. During mitosis, the lamina matrix is reversibly disassembled as the lamin proteins are phosphorylated. Lamin proteins are thought to be involved in nuclear stability, chromatin structure and gene expression. Vertebrate lamins consist of two types, A and B. Mutations in this gene are associated with acquired partial lipodystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000135406	 This gene encodes a cytoskeletal protein found in neurons of the peripheral nervous system. The encoded protein is a type III intermediate filament protein with homology to other cytoskeletal proteins such as desmin, and is a different protein that the peripherin found in photoreceptors. Mutations in this gene have been associated with susceptibility to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169562	 This gene encodes a member of the gap junction protein family. The gap junction proteins are membrane-spanning proteins that assemble to form gap junction channels that facilitate the transfer of ions and small molecules between cells. According to sequence similarities at the nucleotide and amino acid levels, the gap junction proteins are divided into two categories, alpha and beta. Mutations in this gene cause X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, an inherited peripheral neuropathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000164266	 The protein encoded by this gene is a trypsin inhibitor, which is secreted from pancreatic acinar cells into pancreatic juice. It is thought to function in the prevention of trypsin-catalyzed premature activation of zymogens within the pancreas and the pancreatic duct. Mutations in this gene are associated with hereditary pancreatitis and tropical calcific pancreatitis. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000111057	 KRT18 encodes the type I intermediate filament chain keratin 18. Keratin 18, together with its filament partner keratin 8, are perhaps the most commonly found members of the intermediate filament gene family. They are expressed in single layer epithelial tissues of the body. Mutations in this gene have been linked to cryptogenic cirrhosis. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186442	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. The type II cytokeratins consist of basic or neutral proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains coexpressed during differentiation of simple and stratified epithelial tissues. This type II cytokeratin is specifically expressed in the corneal epithelium with family member KRT12 and mutations in these genes have been associated with Meesmann's Corneal Dystrophy. The type II cytokeratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q12-q13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135443	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. As a type II hair keratin, it is a basic protein which heterodimerizes with type I keratins to form hair and nails. The type II hair keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q13 and are grouped into two distinct subfamilies based on structure similarity. One subfamily, consisting of KRTHB1, KRTHB3, and KRTHB6, is highly related. The other less-related subfamily includes KRTHB2, KRTHB4, and KRTHB5. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170523	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. As a type II hair keratin, it is a basic protein which heterodimerizes with type I keratins to form hair and nails. The type II hair keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q13 and are grouped into two distinct subfamilies based on structure similarity. One subfamily, consisting of KRTHB1, KRTHB3, and KRTHB6, is highly related. The other less-related subfamily includes KRTHB2, KRTHB4, and KRTHB5. All hair keratins are expressed in the hair follicle; this hair keratin, as well as KRTHB1 and KRTHB6, is found primarily in the hair cortex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000142961	 The protein encoded by this gene is similar to the yeast Mob1 protein. Yeast Mob1 binds Mps1p, a protein kinase essential for spindle pole body duplication and mitotic checkpoint regulation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100012	 The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to the protein encoded by the Saccharomyces cerevisiae SEC14 gene. The SEC14 protein is a phophatidylinositol transfer protein that is essential for biogenesis of Golgi-derived transport vesicles, and thus is required for the export of yeast secretory proteins from the Golgi complex. The specific function of this protein has not yet been determined. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000066926	 The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the mitochondrion, where it catalyzes the insertion of the ferrous form of iron into protoporphyrin IX in the heme synthesis pathway. Mutations in this gene are associated with erythropoietic protoporphyria. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 3.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000165140	 Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase 1, a gluconeogenesis regulatory enzyme, catalyzes the hydrolysis of fructose 1,6-bisphosphate to fructose 6-phosphate and inorganic phosphate. Fructose-1,6-diphosphatase deficiency is associated with hypoglycemia and metabolic acidosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136574	 This gene encodes a member of the GATA family of zinc-finger transcription factors. Members of this family recognize the GATA motif which is present in the promoters of many genes. This protein is thought to regulate genes involved in embryogenesis and in myocardial differentiation and function. Mutations in this gene have been associated with cardiac septal defects. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136931	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional activator involved in sex determination. The encoded protein binds DNA as a monomer. Defects in this gene are a cause of XY sex reversal with or without adrenal failure as well as adrenocortical insufficiency without ovarian defect. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178537	 This gene product is one of several closely related mitochondrial-membrane carrier proteins that shuttle substrates between cytosol and the intramitochondrial matrix space. This protein mediates the transport of acylcarnitines into mitochondrial matrix for their oxidation by the mitochondrial fatty acid-oxidation pathway. Mutations in this gene are associated with carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency, which can cause a variety of pathological conditions such as hypoglycemia, cardiac arrest, hepatomegaly, hepatic dysfunction and muscle weakness, and is usually lethal in new born and infants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000060982	 This gene encodes the cytosolic form of the enzyme branched-chain amino acid transaminase. This enzyme catalyzes the reversible transamination of branched-chain alpha-keto acids to branched-chain L-amino acids essential for cell growth. Two different clinical disorders have been attributed to a defect of branched-chain amino acid transamination: hypervalinemia and hyperleucine-isoleucinemia. As there is also a gene encoding a mitochondrial form of this enzyme, mutations in either gene may contribute to these disorders. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000138435	 The muscle acetylcholine receptor consiststs of 5 subunits of 4 different types: 2 alpha subunits and 1 each of the beta, gamma, and delta subunits. This gene encodes an alpha subunit that plays a role in acetlycholine binding/channel gating. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]. 
ENSG00000077809	 This gene encodes a multifunctional phosphoprotein with roles in transcription and signal transduction. It is deleted in Williams-Beuren syndrome, a multisystem developmental disorder caused by the deletion of contiguous genes at chromosome 7q11.23. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 7, 13 and 21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000198814	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the FGGY kinase family. This protein is a key enzyme in the regulation of glycerol uptake and metabolism. It catalyzes the phosphorylation of glycerol by ATP, yielding ADP and glycerol-3-phosphate. Mutations in this gene are associated with glycerol kinase deficiency (GKD). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000166948	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the transglutaminase superfamily. It catalyzes the cross-linking of proteins and the conjugation of polyamines to proteins. Mutations in this gene are associated with spinocerebellar ataxia type 35 (SCA35). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000147548	 This gene is related to the Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome candidate-1 gene and encodes a protein with PWWP (proline-tryptophan-tryptophan-proline) domains. The function of the protein has not been determined. Two alternatively spliced variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000103222	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra-and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This full transporter is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein functions as a multispecific organic anion transporter, with oxidized glutatione, cysteinyl leukotrienes, and activated aflatoxin B1 as substrates. This protein also transports glucuronides and sulfate conjugates of steroid hormones and bile salts. Alternatively spliced variants of this gene have been described but their full-length nature is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000005421	 The enzyme encoded by this gene is an arylesterase that mainly hydrolyzes paroxon to produce p-nitrophenol. Paroxon is an organophosphorus anticholinesterase compound that is produced in vivo by oxidation of the insecticide parathion. Polymorphisms in this gene are a risk factor in coronary artery disease. The gene is found in a cluster of three related paraoxonase genes at 7q21.3. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000242689	 The protein encoded by this gene is a polypeptide hormone whose actions appear to be restricted to the nervous system where it promotes neurotransmitter synthesis and neurite outgrowth in certain neuronal populations. The protein is a potent survival factor for neurons and oligodendrocytes and may be relevant in reducing tissue destruction during inflammatory attacks. A mutation in this gene, which results in aberrant splicing, leads to ciliary neurotrophic factor deficiency, but this phenotype is not causally related to neurologic disease. A read-through transcript variant composed of the upstream ZFP91 gene and CNTF sequence has been identified, but it is thought to be non-coding. Read-through transcription of ZFP91 and CNTF has also been observed in mouse. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000162595	 This gene is a member of the ras superfamily, and is expressed in normal ovarian and breast epithelial cells, but not in ovarian and breast cancers. It is an imprinted gene, with monoallelic expression of the paternal allele, which is associated with growth suppression. Thus, this gene appears to be a putative tumor suppressor gene whose function is abrogated in ovarian and breast cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000174804	 This gene is a member of the frizzled gene family. Members of this family encode seven-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for the Wingless type MMTV integration site family of signaling proteins. Most frizzled receptors are coupled to the beta-catenin canonical signaling pathway. This protein may play a role as a positive regulator of the Wingless type MMTV integration site signaling pathway. A transcript variant retaining intronic sequence and encoding a shorter isoform has been described, however, its expression is not supported by other experimental evidence. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184895	 This intronless gene encodes a transcription factor that is a member of the high mobility group (HMG)-box family of DNA-binding proteins. This protein is the testis-determining factor (TDF), which initiates male sex determination. Mutations in this gene give rise to XY females with gonadal dysgenesis (Swyer syndrome); translocation of part of the Y chromosome containing this gene to the X chromosome causes XX male syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000077279	 This gene encodes a member of the doublecortin family. The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic protein and contains two doublecortin domains, which bind microtubules. In the developing cortex, cortical neurons must migrate over long distances to reach the site of their final differentiation. The encoded protein appears to direct neuronal migration by regulating the organization and stability of microtubules. In addition, the encoded protein interacts with LIS1, the regulatory gamma subunit of platelet activating factor acetylhydrolase, and this interaction is important to proper microtubule function in the developing cortex. Mutations in this gene cause abnormal migration of neurons during development and disrupt the layering of the cortex, leading to epilepsy, mental retardation, subcortical band heterotopia ('double cortex' syndrome) in females and lissencephaly ('smooth brain' syndrome) in males. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000054654	 The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear outer membrane protein that binds cytoplasmic F-actin. This binding tethers the nucleus to the cytoskeleton and aids in the maintenance of the structural integrity of the nucleus. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000172288	 This gene encodes a protein containing a chromodomain and a histone acetyltransferase catalytic domain. Chromodomain proteins are components of heterochromatin-like complexes and can act as gene repressors. This protein is localized to the nucleus of late spermatids where histone hyperacetylation takes place. Histone hyperacetylation is thought to facilitate the transition in which protamines replace histones as the major DNA-packaging protein. The human chromosome Y has two identical copies of this gene within a palindromic region; this record represents the more telomeric copy. Chromosome Y also contains a pair of closely related genes in another more telomeric palindrome as well as several related pseudogenes. Two protein isoforms are encoded by transcript variants of this gene. Additional transcript variants have been described, but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196177	 Short/branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase(ACADSB) is a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family of enzymes that catalyze the dehydrogenation of acyl-CoA derivatives in the metabolism of fatty acids or branch chained amino acids. Substrate specificity is the primary characteristic used to define members of this gene family. The ACADSB gene product has the greatest activity towards the short branched chain acyl-CoA derivative, (S)-2-methylbutyryl-CoA, but also reacts significantly with other 2-methyl branched chain substrates and with short straight chain acyl-CoAs. The cDNA encodes for a mitochondrial precursor protein which is cleaved upon mitochondrial import and predicted to yield a mature peptide of approximately 43.7-KDa. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115361	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family, which is a family of mitochondrial flavoenzymes involved in fatty acid and branched chain amino-acid metabolism. This protein is one of the four enzymes that catalyze the initial step of mitochondrial beta-oxidation of straight-chain fatty acid. Defects in this gene are the cause of long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (LCAD) deficiency, leading to nonketotic hypoglycemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000172482	 This gene is expressed only in the liver and the encoded protein is localized mostly in the peroxisomes, where it is involved in glyoxylate detoxification. Mutations in this gene, some of which alter subcellular targetting, have been associated with type I primary hyperoxaluria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115170	 Activins are dimeric growth and differentiation factors which belong to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of structurally related signaling proteins. Activins signal through a heteromeric complex of receptor serine kinases which include at least two type I ( I and IB) and two type II (II and IIB) receptors. These receptors are all transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular domain with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with predicted serine/threonine specificity. Type I receptors are essential for signaling; and type II receptors are required for binding ligands and for expression of type I receptors. Type I and II receptors form a stable complex after ligand binding, resulting in phosphorylation of type I receptors by type II receptors. This gene encodes activin A type I receptor which signals a particular transcriptional response in concert with activin type II receptors. Mutations in this gene are associated with fibrodysplasia ossificans progressive. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101940	 This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by Gly-His and Trp-Asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. This gene is widely expressed in various tissues. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000187969	 This gene appears to represent an intronless retrocopy of a related multi-exon gene located on chromosome 3. However, the CDS of this intronless gene remains relatively intact, it is conserved in other mammalian species, it is known to be transcribed, and it is therefore thought to encode a functional protein. The encoded protein contains six CCHC-type zinc fingers, and is thus thought to function as a transcription factor. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000102882	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act in a signaling cascade that regulates various cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, and cell cycle progression in response to a variety of extracellular signals. This kinase is activated by upstream kinases, resulting in its translocation to the nucleus where it phosphorylates nuclear targets. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197487	 This gene encodes a member of the galanin family of neuropeptides. The encoded protein binds galanin receptors 1, 2 and 3 with the highest affinity for galanin receptor 3 and has been implicated in biological processes involving the central nervous system including hypothalamic regulation of metabolism and reproduction. A peptide encoded by a splice variant of this gene, termed alarin, may have vasoactive properties and serve as a marker for neuroblastic tumors.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000074317	 The protein encoded by this gene is highly homologous to alpha-synuclein. These proteins are abundantly expressed in the brain and putatively inhibit phospholipase D2 selectively. The encoded protein, which may play a role in neuronal plasticity, is abundant in neurofibrillary lesions of patients with Alzheimer disease. This protein has been shown to be highly expressed in the substantia nigra of the brain, a region of neuronal degeneration in patients with Parkinson disease; however, no direct relation to Parkinson disease has been established. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101400	 Syntrophins are cytoplasmic peripheral membrane scaffold proteins that are components of the dystrophin-associated protein complex. This gene is a member of the syntrophin gene family and encodes the most common syntrophin isoform found in cardiac tissues. The N-terminal PDZ domain of this syntrophin protein interacts with the C-terminus of the pore-forming alpha subunit (SCN5A) of the cardiac sodium channel Nav1.5. This protein also associates cardiac sodium channels with the nitric oxide synthase-PMCA4b (plasma membrane Ca-ATPase subtype 4b) complex in cardiomyocytes. This gene is a susceptibility locus for Long-QT syndrome (LQT) - an inherited disorder associated with sudden cardiac death from arrhythmia - and sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). This protein also associates with dystrophin and dystrophin-related proteins at the neuromuscular junction and alters intracellular calcium ion levels in muscle tissue. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000180053	 This gene encodes a homeobox-containing protein that belongs to the NK-2 homeobox family. This protein is a vertebrate homolog of Drosophila homeobox-containing protein called 'tinman', which has been shown to be essential for development of the heart-like dorsal vessel. In conjunction with related gene, NKX2-5, this gene may play a role in both pharyngeal and cardiac embryonic development. Mutations in this gene are associated with persistent truncus arteriosus.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000148690	 The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear phosphoprotein of unknown function. The 5' UTR of this gene is part of a CpG island and contains a tandem CGG repeat region that normally consists of 8-14 repeats but can expand to over 200 repeats. The expanded allele becomes hypermethylated and is not transcribed; however, an expanded repeat region has not been associated with any disease phenotype. This gene is found within the rare FRA10A folate-sensitive fragile site. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000167476	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in excitation-contraction coupling at the sarcoplasmic reticulum. The encoded protein can interact with CACNA1S, CACNB1, and calsequestrin to help regulate calcium influx and efflux in skeletal muscle. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000135297	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein thought to be involved in mitochondrial tRNA modification. The encoded protein may also play a role in the expression of the non-syndromic and aminoglycoside-induced deafness phenotypes associated with a specific mutation in the mitochondrial 12S rRNA gene. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126767	 This gene is a member of the Ets family of transcription factors and of the ternary complex factor (TCF) subfamily. Proteins of the TCF subfamily form a ternary complex by binding to the the serum response factor and the serum response element in the promoter of the c-fos proto-oncogene. The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear target for the ras-raf-MAPK signaling cascade. This gene produces multiple isoforms by using alternative translational start codons and by alternative splicing. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 7 and 14. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000166573	 The neuropeptide galanin elicits a range of biological effects by interaction with specific G-protein-coupled receptors. Galanin receptors are seven-transmembrane proteins shown to activate a variety of intracellular second-messenger pathways. GALR1 inhibits adenylyl cyclase via a G protein of the Gi/Go family.  GALR1 is widely expressed in the brain and spinal cord, as well as in peripheral sites such as the small intestine and heart. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000008226	 This gene contains 37 exons, spans approximately 59-kb, and is located in the 3p22-p21.3 chromosomal segment that is commonly deleted in various carcinomas. Several alternatively spliced transcripts have been observed that contain disrupted coding regions and likely encode nonfunctional proteins. Aberrant transcription of this gene may be involved in carcinogenesis of the lung, esophagus, and kidney. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101204	 This gene encodes a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, which belongs to a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that play a role in fast signal transmission at synapses. These pentameric receptors can bind acetylcholine, which causes an extensive change in conformation that leads to the opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. This protein is an integral membrane receptor subunit that can interact with either nAChR beta-2 or nAChR beta-4 to form a functional receptor. Mutations in this gene cause nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy type 1. Polymorphisms in this gene that provide protection against nicotine addiction have been described. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000188778	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of beta adrenergic receptors, which mediate catecholamine-induced activation of adenylate cyclase through the action of G proteins. This receptor is located mainly in the adipose tissue and is involved in the regulation of lipolysis and thermogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000160323	 This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motif) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The enzyme encoded by this gene is the von Willebrand Factor (vWF)-cleaving protease, which is responsible for cleaving at the site of Tyr842-Met843 of the vWF molecule. A deficiency of this enzyme is associated with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. Alternative splicing of this gene generates multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000157828	 The protein encoded by this gene is a ribosomal protein that is highly similar to RPS4Y1. This gene is located in the male-specific region of the Y chromosome. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000124564	 The protein encoded by this gene is a voltage-driven transporter that excretes intracellular urate and organic anions from the blood into renal tubule cells. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The longer isoform is a plasma membrane protein with transporter activity while the shorter isoform localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000182415	 This intronless gene encodes a protein containing a chromodomain and a histone acetyltransferase catalytic domain. Chromodomain proteins are components of heterochromatin-like complexes and can act as gene repressors. This protein is localized to the nucleus of late spermatids where histone hyperacetylation takes place. Histone hyperacetylation is thought to facilitate the transition in which protamines replace histones as the major DNA-packaging protein. Two nearly identical copies of this gene are found in a palindromic region on chromosome Y; this record represents the telomeric copy. Chromosome Y also contains a pair of closely related genes in another more telomeric palindrome as well as several related pseudogenes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000244414	 This gene encodes a secreted protein belonging to the complement factor H protein family. It binds to Pseudomonas aeruginosa elongation factor Tuf together with plasminogen, which is proteolytically activated. It is proposed that Tuf acts as a virulence factor by acquiring host proteins to the pathogen surface, controlling complement, and facilitating tissue invasion. Mutations in this gene are associated with an increased risk of atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000145244	 This gene encodes a member of the type II transmembrane serine protease class of the trypsin superfamily. Members of this family are composed of multiple structurally distinct domains. The encoded protein converts pro-atrial natriuretic peptide to biologically active atrial natriuretic peptide, a cardiac hormone that regulates blood volume and pressure. This protein may also function as a pro-brain-type natriuretic peptide convertase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157087	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type primary ion transport ATPases characterized by the formation of an aspartyl phosphate intermediate during the reaction cycle. These enzymes remove bivalent calcium ions from eukaryotic cells against very large concentration gradients and play a critical role in intracellular calcium homeostasis. The mammalian plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoforms are encoded by at least four separate genes and the diversity of these enzymes is further increased by alternative splicing of transcripts. The expression of different isoforms and splice variants is regulated in a developmental, tissue- and cell type-specific manner, suggesting that these pumps are functionally adapted to the physiological needs of particular cells and tissues. This gene encodes the plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110244	 Apoliprotein (apo) A-IV gene contains 3 exons separated by two introns. A sequence polymorphism has been identified in the 3'UTR of the third exon.  The primary translation product is a 396-residue preprotein which after proteolytic processing is secreted its primary site of synthesis, the intestine, in association with chylomicron particles.  Although its precise function is not known, apo A-IV is a potent activator of lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase in vitro. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119139	 This gene encodes a zonula occluden that is a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase homolog family. The encoded protein functions as a component of the tight junction barrier in epithelial and endothelial cells and is necessary for proper assembly of tight junctions. Mutations in this gene have been identified in patients with hypercholanemia, and genomic duplication of a 270 kb region including this gene causes autosomal dominant deafness-51. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000136717	 This gene encodes several isoforms of a nucleocytoplasmic adaptor protein, one of which was initially identified as a MYC-interacting protein with features of a tumor suppressor. Isoforms that are expressed in the central nervous system may be involved in synaptic vesicle endocytosis and may interact with dynamin, synaptojanin, endophilin, and clathrin. Isoforms that are expressed in muscle and ubiquitously expressed isoforms localize to the cytoplasm and nucleus and activate a caspase-independent apoptotic process. Studies in mouse suggest that this gene plays an important role in cardiac muscle development. Alternate splicing of the gene results in ten transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Aberrant splice variants expressed in tumor cell lines have also been described. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000158874	 This gene encodes apolipoprotein (apo-) A-II, which is the second most abundant protein of the high density lipoprotein particles. The protein is found in plasma as a monomer, homodimer, or heterodimer with apolipoprotein D. Defects in this gene may result in apolipoprotein A-II deficiency or hypercholesterolemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125363	 This gene encodes a member of the amelogenin family of extracellular matrix proteins. Amelogenins are involved in biomineralization during tooth enamel development. Mutations in this gene cause X-linked amelogenesis imperfecta. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188157	 This gene encodes one of several proteins that are critical in the development of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), as identified in mouse knock-out studies. The encoded protein contains several laminin G, Kazal type serine protease inhibitor, and epidermal growth factor domains. Additional post-translational modifications occur to add glycosaminoglycans and disulfide bonds. In one family with congenital myasthenic syndrome affecting limb-girdle muscles, a mutation in this gene was found. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000155959	 The protein encoded by this gene interacts with the Von Hippel-Lindau protein to form an intracellular complex.  Because it functions as a chaperone protein, it is suspected that it may play a role in the transport of the Von Hippel-Lindau protein from the perinuclear granules to the nucleus or cytoplasm. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000156504	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL691477.9 and AL672032.6. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000157131	 C8 is a component of the complement system and contains three polypeptides, alpha, beta and gamma. This gene encodes the alpha subunit of C8. C8 participates in the formation of the membrane attack complex (MAC). The MAC assembles on bacterial membranes to form a pore, permitting disruption of bacterial membrane organization. Mutations in this gene cause complement C8 alpha-gamma deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000162337	 This gene encodes a transmembrane low-density lipoprotein receptor that binds and internalizes ligands in the process of receptor-mediated endocytosis. This protein also acts as a co-receptor with Frizzled protein family members for transducing signals by Wnt proteins and was originally cloned on the basis of its association with type 1 diabetes mellitus in humans. This protein plays a key role in skeletal homeostasis and many bone density related diseases are caused by mutations in this gene. Mutations in this gene also cause familial exudative vitreoretinopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000007312	 The B lymphocyte antigen receptor is a multimeric complex that includes the antigen-specific component, surface immunoglobulin (Ig). Surface Ig non-covalently associates with two other proteins, Ig-alpha and Ig-beta, which are necessary for expression and function of the B-cell antigen receptor. This gene encodes the Ig-beta protein of the B-cell antigen component. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109158	 Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. At least 16 distinct subunits of GABA-A receptors have been identified. This gene encodes subunit alpha-4, which is involved in the etiology of autism and eventually increases autism risk through interaction with another subunit, gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor beta-1 (GABRB1). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found in this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000131482	 Glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) is a multi-subunit integral membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum that is composed of a catalytic subunit and transporters for G6P, inorganic phosphate, and glucose. This gene (G6PC) is one of the three glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic-subunit-encoding genes in human: G6PC, G6PC2 and G6PC3. Glucose-6-phosphatase catalyzes the hydrolysis of D-glucose 6-phosphate to D-glucose and orthophosphate and is a key enzyme in glucose homeostasis, functioning in gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis. Mutations in this gene cause glycogen storage disease type I (GSD1). This disease, also known as von Gierke disease, is a metabolic disorder characterized by severe hypoglycemia associated with the accumulation of glycogen and fat in the liver and kidneys.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000106804	 The protein encoded by this gene is the fifth component of complement, which plays an important role in inflammatory and cell killing processes. This protein is comprised of alpha and beta polypeptide chains that are linked by a disulfide bridge. An activation peptide, C5a, which is an anaphylatoxin that possesses potent spasmogenic and chemotactic activity, is derived from the alpha polypeptide via cleavage with a convertase. The C5b macromolecular cleavage product can form a complex with the C6 complement component, and this complex is the basis for formation of the membrane attack complex, which includes additional complement components. Mutations in this gene cause complement component 5 deficiency, a disease where patients show a propensity for severe recurrent infections. Defects in this gene have also been linked to a susceptibility to liver fibrosis and to rheumatoid arthritis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178568	 This gene is a member of the Tyr protein kinase family and the epidermal growth factor receptor subfamily. It encodes a single-pass type I membrane protein with multiple cysteine rich domains, a transmembrane domain, a tyrosine kinase domain, a phosphotidylinositol-3 kinase binding site and a PDZ domain binding motif. The protein binds to and is activated by neuregulins and other factors and induces a variety of cellular responses including mitogenesis and differentiation. Multiple proteolytic events allow for the release of a cytoplasmic fragment and an extracellular fragment. Mutations in this gene have been associated with cancer. Alternatively spliced variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described; however, not all variants have been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133216	 Ephrin receptors and their ligands, the ephrins, mediate numerous developmental processes, particularly in the nervous system. Based on their structures and sequence relationships, ephrins are divided into the ephrin-A (EFNA) class, which are anchored to the membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol linkage, and the ephrin-B (EFNB) class, which are transmembrane proteins. The Eph family of receptors are divided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. Ephrin receptors make up the largest subgroup of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) family. The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for ephrin-B family members. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134760	 Desmosomes are cell-cell junctions between epithelial, myocardial and certain other cell types. Desmoglein 1 is a calcium-binding transmembrane glycoprotein component of desmosomes in vertebrate epithelial cells. Currently, three desmoglein subfamily members have been identified and all are members of the cadherin cell adhesion molecule superfamily. These desmoglein gene family members are located in a cluster on chromosome 18. The protein encoded by this gene has been identified as the autoantigen of the autoimmune skin blistering disease pemphigus foliaceus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184845	 This gene encodes the D1 subtype of the dopamine receptor. The D1 subtype is the most abundant dopamine receptor in the central nervous system. This G-protein coupled receptor stimulates adenylyl cyclase and activates cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinases. D1 receptors regulate neuronal growth and development, mediate some behavioral responses, and modulate dopamine receptor D2-mediated events. Alternate transcription initiation sites result in two transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000084073	 This gene encodes a member of the peptidase M48A family. The encoded protein is a zinc metalloproteinase involved in the two step post-translational proteolytic cleavage of carboxy terminal residues of farnesylated prelamin A to form mature lamin A. Mutations in this gene have been associated with mandibuloacral dysplasia and restrictive dermopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169057	 DNA methylation is the major modification of eukaryotic genomes and plays an essential role in mammalian development. Human proteins MECP2, MBD1, MBD2, MBD3, and MBD4 comprise a family of nuclear proteins related by the presence in each of a methyl-CpG binding domain (MBD). Each of these proteins, with the exception of MBD3, is capable of binding specifically to methylated DNA. MECP2, MBD1 and MBD2 can also repress transcription from methylated gene promoters. In contrast to other MBD family members, MECP2 is X-linked and subject to X inactivation. MECP2 is dispensible in stem cells, but is essential for embryonic development. MECP2 gene mutations are the cause of most cases of Rett syndrome, a progressive neurologic developmental disorder and one of the most common causes of mental retardation in females. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000046647	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of the SMN complex, which is necessary for spliceosomal snRNP assembly in the cytoplasm and pre-mRNA splicing in the nucleus. The encoded protein binds to both SMN1 and the GEMIN6/GEMIN7 heterodimer, mediating their interaction. This protein is found in nuclear Gemini of Cajal bodies (gems) and in the cytoplasm. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000108557	 This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. It is highly similar to its mouse counterpart and is expressed at high levels mainly in neuronal tissues. The protein encoded by this gene includes a polymorphic polyglutamine tract in the N-terminal domain. Expression of the mouse counterpart in neurons is induced by retinoic acid. This gene is associated with both the severity of the phenotype and the response to medication in schizophrenic patients. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000146085	 This gene encodes the mitochondrial enzyme methylmalonyl Coenzyme A mutase. In humans, the product of this gene is a vitamin B12-dependent enzyme which catalyzes the isomerization of methylmalonyl-CoA to succinyl-CoA, while in other species this enzyme may have different functions. Mutations in this gene may lead to various types of methylmalonic aciduria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000011677	 GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. At least 16 distinct subunits of GABA-A receptors have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186160	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 1p33. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186377	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The expression pattern of a similar rat protein suggests that this protein may be involved in neurovascular function in the brain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145476	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 hemethiolate protein superfamily which are involved in oxidizing various substrates in the metabolic pathway. It is implicated in the metabolism of fatty acid precursors into n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids. Mutations in this gene result in Bietti crystalline corneoretinal dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186529	 This gene, CYP4F3, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. The enzyme starts the process of inactivating and degrading leukotriene B4, a potent mediator of inflammation. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19. Another member of this family, CYP4F8, is approximately 18 kb away. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000036530	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum protein is expressed in the brain, where it converts cholesterol to 24S-hydroxycholesterol. While cholesterol cannot pass the blood-brain barrier, 24S-hydroxycholesterol can be secreted in the brain into the circulation to be returned to the liver for catabolism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000146233	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum protein is involved in the conversion of cholesterol to bile acids. Its substrates include the oxysterols 25-hydroxycholesterol, 27-hydroxycholesterol and 24-hydroxycholesterol. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000155016	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This enzyme is a hydroxylase that metabolizes arachidonic acid, docosahexaenoic acid, and other long chain fatty acids. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198077	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum; its substrate has not yet been determined. This gene, which produces two transcript variants, is part of a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167910	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein catalyzes the first reaction in the cholesterol catabolic pathway in the liver, which converts cholesterol to bile acids. This reaction is the rate limiting step and the major site of regulation of bile acid synthesis, which is the primary mechanism for the removal of cholesterol from the body. Polymorphisms in the promoter of this gene are associated with defects in bile acid synthesis. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000001630	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum protein participates in the synthesis of cholesterol by catalyzing the removal of the 14alpha-methyl group from lanosterol. Homologous genes are found in all three eukaryotic phyla, fungi, plants, and animals, suggesting that this is one of the oldest cytochrome P450 genes. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000187516	 This gene encodes a protein shown to interact with huntingtin, which contains an expanded polyglutamine tract in individuals with Huntington's disease (PMID: 9700202). [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000178425	 While the exact function of the protein encoded by this gene is not known, it belongs to the 5'(3')-deoxyribonucleotidase family. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000185591	 The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor that binds to GC-rich motifs of many promoters. The encoded protein is involved in many cellular processes, including cell differentiation, cell growth, apoptosis, immune responses, response to DNA damage, and chromatin remodeling. Post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation, acetylation, glycosylation, and proteolytic processing significantly affect the activity of this protein, which can be an activator or a repressor. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000151348	 This gene encodes one of two glycosyltransferases involved in the chain elongation step of heparan sulfate biosynthesis. Mutations in this gene cause the type II form of multiple exostoses. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000103249	 The product of this gene belongs to the CLC chloride channel family of proteins. Chloride channels play important roles in the plasma membrane and in intracellular organelles. This gene encodes chloride channel 7. Defects in this gene are the cause of osteopetrosis autosomal recessive type 4 (OPTB4), also called infantile malignant osteopetrosis type 2 as well as the cause of autosomal dominant osteopetrosis type 2 (OPTA2), also called autosomal dominant Albers-Schonberg disease or marble disease autosoml dominant. Osteopetrosis is a rare genetic disease characterized by abnormally dense bone, due to defective resorption of immature bone. OPTA2 is the most common form of osteopetrosis, occurring in adolescence or adulthood. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160654	 The protein encoded by this gene is the CD3-gamma polypeptide, which together with CD3-epsilon, -delta and -zeta, and the T-cell receptor alpha/beta and gamma/delta heterodimers, forms the T-cell receptor-CD3 complex. This complex plays an important role in coupling antigen recognition to several intracellular signal-transduction pathways. The genes encoding the epsilon, gamma and delta polypeptides are located in the same cluster on chromosome 11. Defects in this gene are associated with T cell immunodeficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159189	 This gene encodes a major constituent of the human complement subcomponent C1q. C1q associates with C1r and C1s in order to yield the first component of the serum complement system. A deficiency in C1q has been associated with lupus erythematosus and glomerulonephritis. C1q is composed of 18 polypeptide chains: six A-chains, six B-chains, and six C-chains. Each chain contains a collagen-like region located near the N-terminus, and a C-terminal globular region. The A-, B-, and C-chains are arranged in the order A-C-B on chromosome 1. This gene encodes the C-chain polypeptide of human complement subcomponent C1q. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000205403	 This gene encodes a serine proteinase that is essential for regulating the complement cascade. The encoded preproprotein is cleaved to produce both heavy and light chains, which are linked by disulfide bonds to form a heterodimeric glycoprotein. This heterodimer can cleave and inactivate the complement components C4b and C3b, and it prevents the assembly of the C3 and C5 convertase enzymes. Defects in this gene cause complement factor I deficiency, an autosomal recessive disease associated with a susceptibility to pyogenic infections. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a predisposition to atypical hemolytic uraemic syndrome, a disease characterized by acute renal failure, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia. Primary glomerulonephritis with immmune deposits is another condition associated with mutation of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131187	 This gene encodes coagulation factor XII which circulates in blood as a zymogen. This single chain zymogen is converted to a two-chain serine protease with an heavy chain (alpha-factor XIIa) and a light chain. The heavy chain contains two fibronectin-type domains, two epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like domains, a kringle domain and a proline-rich domain, whereas the light chain contains only a catalytic domain. On activation, further cleavages takes place in the heavy chain, resulting in the production of beta-factor XIIa light chain and the alpha-factor XIIa light chain becomes beta-factor XIIa heavy chain. Prekallikrein is cleaved by factor XII to form kallikrein, which then cleaves factor XII first to alpha-factor XIIa and then to beta-factor XIIa. The active factor XIIa participates in the initiation of blood coagulation, fibrinolysis, and the generation of bradykinin and angiotensin. It activates coagulation factors VII and XI. Defects in this gene do not cause any clinical symptoms and the sole effect is that whole-blood clotting time is prolonged. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198719	  DLL1 is a human homolog of the Notch Delta ligand and is a member of the delta/serrate/jagged family.  It plays a role in mediating cell fate decisions during hematopoiesis. It may play a role in cell-to-cell communication. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135604	 This gene encodes a member of the syntaxin family. Syntaxins have been implicated in the targeting and fusion of intracellular transport vesicles. This family member may regulate protein transport among late endosomes and the trans-Golgi network. Mutations in this gene have been associated with familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110057	 This gene encodes a protein with similarity to the C. elegans unc93 protein. The Unc93 protein is involved in the regulation or coordination of muscle contraction in the worm. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163939	 This locus encodes a subunit of ATP-dependent chromatin-remodeling complexes. The encoded protein has been identified as in integral component of complexes necessary for ligand-dependent transcriptional activation by nuclear hormone receptors. Mutations at this locus have been associated with primary clear cell renal cell carcinoma. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000096093	 This gene encodes an EF-hand-containing calcium binding protein. The encoded protein likely plays a role in calcium homeostasis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with susceptibility to juvenile myoclonic epilepsy and juvenile absence epilepsy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000198805	 This gene encodes an enzyme which reversibly catalyzes the phosphorolysis of purine nucleosides. The enzyme is trimeric, containing three identical subunits. Mutations which result in nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency result in defective T-cell (cell-mediated) immunity but can also affect B-cell immunity and antibody responses. Neurologic disorders may also be apparent in patients with immune defects. A known polymorphism at aa position 51 that does not affect enzyme activity has been described. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136802	 This gene encodes a protein belonging to the leucine-rich repeat family of proteins, which are involved in diverse biological processes, including cell adhesion, cellular trafficking, and hormone-receptor interactions. This family member is a putative four-pass transmembrane protein that plays a role in B cell development. Defects in this gene cause autosomal dominant non-Bruton type agammaglobulinemia, an immunodeficiency disease resulting from defects in B cell maturation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode the same protein, have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133710	 This gene encodes a multidomain serine protease inhibitor that contains 15 potential inhibitory domains. The inhibitor may play a role in skin and hair morphogenesis and anti-inflammatory and/or antimicrobial protection of mucous epithelia. Mutations may result in Netherton syndrome, a disorder characterized by ichthyosis, defective cornification, and atopy. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166716	 This gene is thought to play a role in a complex developmental pathway and the regulation of genes involved in cerebellar development. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive spinocerebellar ataxia. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000107951	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the DNA polymerase type-B-like family. This enzyme synthesizes the 3' poly(A) tail of mitochondrial transcripts and plays a role in replication-dependent histone mRNA degradation.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000130208	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the apolipoprotein C1 family. This gene is expressed primarily in the liver, and it is activated when monocytes differentiate into macrophages. A pseudogene of this gene is located 4 kb downstream in the same orientation, on the same chromosome. This gene is mapped to chromosome 19, where it resides within a apolipoprotein gene cluster. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene, but the biological validity of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100106	 This gene encodes a protein with an N-terminal pleckstrin homology domain and a C-terminal coiled-coil region. The protein interacts with trio, which is involved with neural tissue development and controlling actin cytoskeleton organization, cell motility and cell growth. The protein also associates with F-actin and stabilizes F-actin structures. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a form of autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that would encode different isoforms have been found for this gene, however some transcripts may be subject to nonsense-mediated decay (NMD). [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000155465	 The protein encoded by this gene is the light subunit of a cationic amino acid transporter. This sodium-independent transporter is formed when the light subunit encoded by this gene dimerizes with the heavy subunit transporter protein SLC3A2. This transporter is found in epithelial cell membranes where it transfers cationic and large neutral amino acids from the cell to the extracellular space. Defects in this gene are a cause of lysinuric protein intolerance (LPI). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000102078	 Mitochondrial uncoupling proteins (UCP) are members of the larger family of mitochondrial anion carrier proteins (MACP). UCPs separate oxidative phosphorylation from ATP synthesis with energy dissipated as heat, also referred to as the mitochondrial proton leak. UCPs facilitate the transfer of anions from the inner to the outer mitochondrial membrane and the return transfer of protons from the outer to the inner mitochondrial membrane. They also reduce the mitochondrial membrane potential in mammalian cells. Tissue specificity occurs for the different UCPs and the exact methods of how UCPs transfer H+/OH- are not known. UCPs contain the three homologous protein domains of MACPs. This gene is widely expressed in many tissues with the greatest abundance in brain and testis. The gene product has an N-terminal hydrophobic domain that is not present in other UCPs. Two splice variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163938	 The protein encoded by this gene may interact with p53 and may be involved in tumorigenesis. The encoded protein also appears to be important for stem cell proliferation. This protein is found in both the nucleus and nucleolus. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000127616	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SWI/SNF family of proteins and is similar to the brahma protein of Drosophila. Members of this family have helicase and ATPase activities and are thought to regulate transcription of certain genes by altering the chromatin structure around those genes. The encoded protein is part of the large ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complex SNF/SWI, which is required for transcriptional activation of genes normally repressed by chromatin. In addition, this protein can bind BRCA1, as well as regulate the expression of the tumorigenic protein CD44. Mutations in this gene cause rhabdoid tumor predisposition syndrome type 2. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000138030	 This gene encodes ketohexokinase that catalyzes conversion of fructose to fructose-1-phosphate. The product of this gene is the first enzyme with a specialized pathway that catabolizes dietary fructose. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000163646	 This gene encodes a protein that contains a cytosolic N-terminus, multiple helical transmembrane domains, and an endoplasmic reticulum membrane retention signal, TKGH, in the C-terminus. The encoded protein may be important in development and homeostasis of the inner ear and retina. Mutations within this gene have been associated with Usher syndrome type IIIa. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104368	 This gene encodes tissue-type plasminogen activator, a secreted serine protease which converts the proenzyme plasminogen to plasmin, a fibrinolytic enzyme. Tissue-type plasminogen activator is synthesized as a single chain which is cleaved by plasmin to a two chain disulfide linked protein. This enzyme plays a role in cell migration and tissue remodeling. Increased enzymatic activity causes hyperfibrinolysis, which manifests as excessive bleeding; decreased activity leads to hypofibrinolysis which can result in thrombosis or embolism. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131196	 The product of this gene is a component of the nuclear factor of activated T cells DNA-binding transcription complex. This complex consists of at least two components: a preexisting cytosolic component that translocates to the nucleus upon T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation, and an inducible nuclear component. Proteins belonging to this family of transcription factors play a central role in inducible gene transcription during immune response. The product of this gene is an inducible nuclear component. It functions as a major molecular target for the immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclosporin A. Five transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. Different isoforms of this protein may regulate inducible expression of different cytokine genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000072501	 Proper cohesion of sister chromatids is a prerequisite for the correct segregation of chromosomes during cell division. The cohesin multiprotein complex is required for sister chromatid cohesion. This complex is composed partly of two structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC) proteins, SMC3 and either SMC1L2 or the protein encoded by this gene. Most of the cohesin complexes dissociate from the chromosomes before mitosis, although those complexes at the kinetochore remain. Therefore, the encoded protein is thought to be an important part of functional kinetochores. In addition, this protein interacts with BRCA1 and is phosphorylated by ATM, indicating a potential role for this protein in DNA repair. This gene, which belongs to the SMC gene family, is located in an area of the X-chromosome that escapes X inactivation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135404	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. The encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins. It may function as a blood platelet activation marker. Deficiency of this protein is associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome. Also this gene has been associated with tumor progression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000142655	 This gene encodes an essential component of the peroxisomal import machinery. The protein is integrated into peroxisome membranes with its C-terminus exposed to the cytosol, and interacts with the cytosolic receptor for proteins containing a PTS1 peroxisomal targeting signal. The protein also functions as a transcriptional corepressor and interacts with a histone deacetylase. A mutation in this gene results in one form of Zellweger syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124615	 Molybdenum cofactor biosynthesis is a conserved pathway leading to the biological activation of molybdenum. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in this pathway. This gene was originally thought to produce a bicistronic mRNA with the potential to produce two proteins (MOCS1A and MOCS1B) from adjacent open reading frames. However, only the first open reading frame (MOCS1A) has been found to encode a protein from the putative bicistronic mRNA, whereas additional splice variants, whose full-length natures have yet to be determined, are likely to produce a fusion between the two open reading frames. This gene is defective in patients with molybdenum cofactor deficiency, type A. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 16. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000117335	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein and is a regulatory part of the complement system. The encoded protein has cofactor activity for inactivation of complement components C3b and C4b by serum factor I, which protects the host cell from damage by complement. In addition, the encoded protein can act as a receptor for the Edmonston strain of measles virus, human herpesvirus-6, and type IV pili of pathogenic Neisseria. Finally, the protein encoded by this gene may be involved in the fusion of the spermatozoa with the oocyte during fertilization. Mutations at this locus have been associated with susceptibility to hemolytic uremic syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000168685	 The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for interleukine 7 (IL7). The function of this receptor requires the interleukin 2 receptor, gamma chain (IL2RG), which is a common gamma chain shared by the receptors of various cytokines, including interleukine 2, 4, 7, 9, and 15. This protein has been shown to play a critical role in the V(D)J recombination during lymphocyte development. This protein is also found to control the accessibility of the TCR gamma locus by STAT5 and histone acetylation. Knockout studies in mice suggested that blocking apoptosis is an essential function of this protein during differentiation and activation of T lymphocytes. The functional defects in this protein may be associated with the pathogenesis of the severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109163	 This gene encodes the receptor for type 1 gonadotropin-releasing hormone. This receptor is a member of the seven-transmembrane, G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) family. It is expressed on the surface of pituitary gonadotrope cells as well as lymphocytes, breast, ovary, and prostate. Following binding of gonadotropin-releasing hormone, the receptor associates with G-proteins that activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Activation of the receptor ultimately causes the release of gonadotropic luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH). Defects in this gene are a cause of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. More than 18 transcription initiation sites in the 5' region and multiple polyA signals in the 3' region have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105607	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family. It catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of glutaryl-CoA to crotonyl-CoA and CO(2) in the degradative pathway of L-lysine, L-hydroxylysine, and L-tryptophan metabolism. It uses electron transfer flavoprotein as its electron acceptor. The enzyme exists in the mitochondrial matrix as a homotetramer of 45-kD subunits. Mutations in this gene result in the metabolic disorder glutaric aciduria type 1, which is also known as glutaric acidemia type I. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 12. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000113327	 This gene encodes a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor. GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammlian brain, where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. GABA-A receptors are pentameric, consisting of proteins from several subunit classes: alpha, beta, gamma, delta and rho. Mutations in this gene have been associated with epilepsy and febrile seizures. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133392	 The protein encoded by this gene is a smooth muscle myosin belonging to the myosin heavy chain family. The gene product is a subunit of a hexameric protein that consists of two heavy chain subunits and two pairs of non-identical light chain subunits. It functions as a major contractile protein, converting chemical energy into mechanical energy through the hydrolysis of ATP. The gene encoding a human ortholog of rat NUDE1 is transcribed from the reverse strand of this gene, and its 3' end overlaps with that of the latter. The pericentric inversion of chromosome 16 [inv(16)(p13q22)] produces a chimeric transcript that encodes a protein consisting of the first 165 residues from the N terminus of core-binding factor beta in a fusion with the C-terminal portion of the smooth muscle myosin heavy chain. This chromosomal rearrangement is associated with acute myeloid leukemia of the M4Eo subtype. Alternative splicing generates isoforms that are differentially expressed, with ratios changing during muscle cell maturation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108395	 This gene encodes a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family, whose members are involved in diverse cellular functions such as developmental patterning and oncogenesis. The TRIM motif includes zinc-binding domains, a RING finger region, a B-box motif and a coiled-coil domain. The RING finger and B-box domains chelate zinc and might be involved in protein-protein and/or protein-nucleic acid interactions. The gene mutations are associated with mulibrey (muscle-liver-brain-eye) nanism, an autosomal recessive disorder that involves several tissues of mesodermal origin. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168453	 This gene encodes a protein that is involved in hair growth. This protein functions as a transcriptional corepressor of multiple nuclear receptors, including thyroid hormone receptor, the retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptors and the vitamin D receptors, and it interacts with histone deacetylases. The translation of this protein is modulated by multiple regulatory ORFs that exist upstream of the primary ORF. Mutations in one of these upstream ORFs, U2HR, cause Marie Unna hereditary hypotrichosis (MUHH), an autosomal dominant form of genetic hair loss. Mutations in this gene also cause autosomal recessive congenital alopecia and atrichia with papular lesions, other diseases resulting in hair loss. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000177990	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the dpy-19 family. It is highly expressed in testis, and is required for sperm head elongation and acrosome formation during spermatogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with an infertility disorder, spermatogenic failure type 9 (SPGF9). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000158828	 This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that localizes to mitochondria. It is thought to protect cells from stress-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. Mutations in this gene cause one form of autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112592	 Initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II requires the activities of more than 70 polypeptides. The protein that coordinates these activities is transcription factor IID (TFIID), which binds to the core promoter to position the polymerase properly, serves as the scaffold for assembly of the remainder of the transcription complex, and acts as a channel for regulatory signals. TFIID is composed of the TATA-binding protein (TBP) and a group of evolutionarily conserved proteins known as TBP-associated factors or TAFs. TAFs may participate in basal transcription, serve as coactivators, function in promoter recognition or modify general transcription factors (GTFs) to facilitate complex assembly and transcription initiation. This gene encodes TBP, the TATA-binding protein. A distinctive feature of TBP is a long string of glutamines in the N-terminus. This region of the protein modulates the DNA binding activity of the C terminus, and modulation of DNA binding affects the rate of transcription complex formation and initiation of transcription. The number of CAG repeats encoding the polyglutamine tract is usually 32-39, and expansion of the number of repeats increases the length of the polyglutamine string and is associated with spinocerebellar ataxia 17, a neurodegenerative disorder classified as a polyglutamine disease. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000100889	 This gene encodes a member of the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (GTP) family. The protein is a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of oxaloacetate to phosphoenolpyruvate in the presence of GTP. A cytosolic form encoded by a different gene has also been characterized and is the key enzyme of gluconeogenesis in the liver. The encoded protein may serve a similar function, although it is constitutively expressed and not modulated by hormones such as glucagon and insulin that regulate the cytosolic form. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134250	 This gene encodes a member of the Notch family. Members of this Type 1 transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics including an extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain consisting of multiple, different domain types. Notch family members play a role in a variety of developmental processes by controlling cell fate decisions. The Notch signaling network is an evolutionarily conserved intercellular signaling pathway which regulates interactions between physically adjacent cells. In Drosophilia, notch interaction with its cell-bound ligands (delta, serrate) establishes an intercellular signaling pathway that plays a key role in development. Homologues of the notch-ligands have also been identified in human, but precise interactions between these ligands and the human notch homologues remain to be determined. This protein is cleaved in the trans-Golgi network, and presented on the cell surface as a heterodimer. This protein functions as a receptor for membrane bound ligands, and may play a role in vascular, renal and hepatic development. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000177156	 Transaldolase 1 is a key enzyme of the nonoxidative pentose phosphate pathway providing ribose-5-phosphate for nucleic acid synthesis and NADPH for lipid biosynthesis. This pathway can also maintain glutathione at a reduced state and thus protect sulfhydryl groups and cellular integrity from oxygen radicals. The functional gene of transaldolase 1 is located on chromosome 11 and a pseudogene is identified on chromosome 1 but there are conflicting map locations. The second and third exon of this gene were developed by insertion of a retrotransposable element. This gene is thought to be involved in multiple sclerosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112294	 This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. This gene encodes a mitochondrial NAD(+)-dependent succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase. A deficiency of this enzyme, known as 4-hydroxybutyricaciduria, is a rare inborn error in the metabolism of the neurotransmitter 4-aminobutyric acid (GABA). In response to the defect, physiologic fluids from patients accumulate GHB, a compound with numerous neuromodulatory properties. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188107	 The product of this gene contains multiple epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like and LamG domains. The protein is expressed in the photoreceptor layer of the retina, and the gene is mutated in autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000187730	 Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. The GABA-A receptor is generally pentameric and there are five types of subunits: alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and rho. This gene encodes the delta subunit. Mutations in this gene have been associated with susceptibility to generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures, type 5. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102683	 This gene encodes gamma-sarcoglycan, one of several sarcolemmal transmembrane glycoproteins that interact with dystrophin. The dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC) spans the sarcolemma and is comprised of dystrophin, syntrophin, alpha- and beta-dystroglycans and sarcoglycans. The DGC provides a structural link between the subsarcolemmal cytoskeleton and the extracellular matrix of muscle cells. Defects in the encoded protein can lead to early onset autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy, in particular limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 2C (LGMD2C). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000258389	 This gene is located within a D4Z4 repeat array in the subtelomeric region of chromosome 4q. The D4Z4 repeat is polymorphic in length; a similar D4Z4 repeat array has been identified on chromosome 10. Each D4Z4 repeat unit has an open reading frame (named DUX4) that contains two homeoboxes; the repeat-array and ORF is conserved in other mammals. There was no evidence for transcription from standard cDNA libraries however RTPCR and in-vitro expression experiments indicate that the ORF is transcribed and the encoded protein has been reported to function as a transcriptional activator of paired-like homeodomain transcription factor 1 (PITX1; GeneID 5307). Contraction of the microsatellite repeat causes autosomal dominant facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000221955	 This gene is thought to be a candidate for psoriasis susceptibility. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000165171	 This gene encodes a protein belonging to ubiE/COQ5 methyltransferase family. The gene is deleted in Williams syndrome, a multisystem developmental disorder caused by the deletion of contiguous genes at 7q11.22-q11.23. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000122779	 The protein encoded by this gene mediates transcriptional control by interaction with the activation function 2 (AF2) region of several nuclear receptors, including the estrogen, retinoic acid, and vitamin D3 receptors. The protein localizes to nuclear bodies and is thought to associate with chromatin and heterochromatin-associated factors. The protein is a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains - a RING, a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2 - and a coiled-coil region. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197323	 The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be a transcriptional corepressor. However, molecules that interact with this protein have not yet been identified. The protein is a member of the tripartite motif family. This motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants for this gene have been described, however, the full-length nature of one variant has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106638	 This gene encodes a member of the beta-transducin protein family. Most proteins of the beta-transducin family are involved in regulatory functions. This protein is possibly involved in some intracellular signaling pathway. This gene is deleted in Williams-Beuren syndrome, a developmental disorder caused by deletion of multiple genes at 7q11.23. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000149922	 This gene is a member of a phylogenetically conserved family of genes that share a common DNA-binding domain, the T-box. T-box genes encode transcription factors involved in the regulation of developmental processes. Knockout studies in mice indicate that this gene is important for specification of paraxial mesoderm structures. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000054598	 This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors which is characterized by a distinct DNA-binding forkhead domain.  The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, it has been shown to play a role in the regulation of embryonic and ocular development.  Mutations in this gene cause various glaucoma phenotypes including primary congenital glaucoma, autosomal dominant iridogoniodysgenesis anomaly, and Axenfeld-Rieger anomaly. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000107779	 The bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptors are a family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases that include the type I receptors BMPR1A and BMPR1B and the type II receptor BMPR2. These receptors are also closely related to the activin receptors, ACVR1 and ACVR2. The ligands of these receptors are members of the TGF-beta superfamily. TGF-betas and activins transduce their signals through the formation of heteromeric complexes with 2 different types of serine (threonine) kinase receptors: type I receptors of about 50-55 kD and type II receptors of about 70-80 kD. Type II receptors bind ligands in the absence of type I receptors, but they require their respective type I receptors for signaling, whereas type I receptors require their respective type II receptors for ligand binding. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171791	 This gene encodes an integral outer mitochondrial membrane protein that blocks the apoptotic death of some cells such as lymphocytes. Constitutive expression of BCL2, such as in the case of translocation of BCL2 to Ig heavy chain locus, is thought to be the cause of follicular lymphoma. Two transcript variants, produced by alternate splicing, differ in their C-terminal ends. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157540	 This gene encodes a member of the Dual-specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase (DYRK) family. This member contains a nuclear targeting signal sequence, a protein kinase domain, a leucine zipper motif, and a highly conservative 13-consecutive-histidine repeat. It catalyzes its autophosphorylation on serine/threonine and tyrosine residues. It may play a significant role in a signaling pathway regulating cell proliferation and may be involved in brain development. This gene is a homolog of Drosophila mnb (minibrain) gene and rat Dyrk gene. It is localized in the Down syndrome critical region of chromosome 21, and is considered to be a strong candidate gene for learning defects associated with Down syndrome. Alternative splicing of this gene generates several transcript variants differing from each other either in the 5' UTR or in the 3' coding region. These variants encode at least five different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108551	 This gene encodes a member of the Ras superfamily of small GTPases and is induced by dexamethasone. The encoded protein is an activator of G-protein signaling and acts as a direct nucleotide exchange factor for Gi-Go proteins. This protein interacts with the neuronal nitric oxide adaptor protein CAPON, and a nuclear adaptor protein FE65, which interacts with the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein. This gene may play a role in dexamethasone-induced alterations in cell morphology, growth and cell-extracellular matrix interactions. Epigenetic inactivation of this gene is closely correlated with resistance to dexamethasone in multiple myeloma cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000171863	 Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 40S subunit. The protein belongs to the S7E family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169814	 Biotinidase functions to recycle biotin in the body by cleaving biocytin (biotin-epsilon-lysine), a normal product of carboxylase degradation, resulting in regeneration of free biotin. Biotinidase has also been shown to have biotinyl-transferase activity. Defects in the biotinidase gene cause multiple carboxylase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116748	 Adenosine monophosphate deaminase 1 catalyzes the deamination of AMP to IMP in skeletal muscle and plays an important role in the purine nucleotide cycle. Two other genes have been identified, AMPD2 and AMPD3, for the liver- and erythocyte-specific isoforms, respectively. Deficiency of the muscle-specific enzyme is apparently a common cause of exercise-induced myopathy and probably the most common cause of metabolic myopathy in the human. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000198931	 Adenine phosphoribosyltransferase belongs to the purine/pyrimidine phosphoribosyltransferase family. A conserved feature of this gene is the distribution of CpG dinucleotides. This enzyme catalyzes the formation of AMP and inorganic pyrophosphate from adenine and 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate (PRPP). It also produces adenine as a by-product of the polyamine biosynthesis pathway. A homozygous deficiency in this enzyme causes 2,8-dihydroxyadenine urolithiasis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000149925	 The protein encoded by this gene, Aldolase A (fructose-bisphosphate aldolase), is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate. Three aldolase isozymes (A, B, and C), encoded by three different genes, are differentially expressed during development. Aldolase A is found in the developing embryo and is produced in even greater amounts in adult muscle. Aldolase A expression is repressed in adult liver, kidney and intestine and similar to aldolase C levels in brain and other nervous tissue. Aldolase A deficiency has been associated with myopathy and hemolytic anemia. Alternative splicing and alternative promoter usage results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 3 and 10. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000099721	 This gene encodes a member of the amelogenin family of extracellular matrix proteins. Amelogenins are involved in biomineralization during tooth enamel development. Mutations in a related gene on chromosome X cause X-linked amelogenesis imperfecta. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116039	 This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c'', and d. Additional isoforms of many of the V1 and V0 subunit proteins are encoded by multiple genes or alternatively spliced transcript variants. This encoded protein is one of two V1 domain B subunit isoforms and is found in the kidney. Mutations in this gene cause distal renal tubular acidosis associated with sensorineural deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132170	 This gene encodes a member of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) subfamily of nuclear receptors. PPARs form heterodimers with retinoid X receptors (RXRs) and these heterodimers regulate transcription of various genes. Three subtypes of PPARs are known: PPAR-alpha, PPAR-delta, and PPAR-gamma. The protein encoded by this gene is PPAR-gamma and is a regulator of adipocyte differentiation. Additionally, PPAR-gamma has been implicated in the pathology of numerous diseases including obesity, diabetes, atherosclerosis and cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000018625	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gradients of Na and K ions across the plasma membrane. These gradients are essential for osmoregulation, for sodium-coupled transport of a variety of organic and inorganic molecules, and for electrical excitability of nerve and muscle. This enzyme is composed of two subunits, a large catalytic subunit (alpha) and a smaller glycoprotein subunit (beta). The catalytic subunit of Na+/K+ -ATPase is encoded by multiple genes. This gene encodes an alpha 2 subunit. Mutations in this gene result in familial basilar or hemiplegic migraines, and in a rare syndrome known as alternating hemiplegia of childhood. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000105409	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gradients of Na and K ions across the plasma membrane. These gradients are essential for osmoregulation, for sodium-coupled transport of a variety of organic and inorganic molecules, and for electrical excitability of nerve and muscle. This enzyme is composed of two subunits, a large catalytic subunit (alpha) and a smaller glycoprotein subunit (beta). The catalytic subunit of Na+/K+ -ATPase is encoded by multiple genes. This gene encodes an alpha 3 subunit. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000064195	 Many vertebrate homeo box-containing genes have been identified on the basis of their sequence similarity with Drosophila developmental genes. Members of the Dlx gene family contain a homeobox that is related to that of Distal-less (Dll), a gene expressed in the head and limbs of the developing fruit fly. The Distal-less (Dlx) family of genes comprises at least 6 different members, DLX1-DLX6. Trichodentoosseous syndrome (TDO), an autosomal dominant condition, has been correlated with DLX3 gene mutation. This gene is located in a tail-to-tail configuration with another member of the gene family on the long arm of chromosome 17. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the autosomal dominant conditions trichodentoosseous syndrome and amelogenesis imperfecta with taurodontism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102024	 Plastins are a family of actin-binding proteins that are conserved throughout eukaryote evolution and expressed in most tissues of higher eukaryotes. In humans, two ubiquitous plastin isoforms (L and T) have been identified. Plastin 1 (otherwise known as Fimbrin) is a third distinct plastin isoform which is specifically expressed at high levels in the small intestine. The L isoform is expressed only in hemopoietic cell lineages, while the T isoform has been found in all other normal cells of solid tissues that have replicative potential (fibroblasts, endothelial cells, epithelial cells, melanocytes, etc.). The C-terminal 570 amino acids of the T-plastin and L-plastin proteins are 83% identical. It contains a potential calcium-binding site near the N terminus. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000038945	 This gene encodes the class A macrophage scavenger receptors, which include three different types (1, 2, 3) generated by alternative splicing of this gene. These receptors or isoforms are macrophage-specific trimeric integral membrane glycoproteins and have been implicated in many macrophage-associated physiological and pathological processes including atherosclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and host defense. The isoforms type 1 and type 2 are functional receptors and are able to mediate the endocytosis of modified low density lipoproteins (LDLs). The isoform type 3 does not internalize modified LDL (acetyl-LDL) despite having the domain shown to mediate this function in the types 1 and 2 isoforms. It has an altered intracellular processing and is trapped within the endoplasmic reticulum, making it unable to perform endocytosis. The isoform type 3 can inhibit the function of isoforms type 1 and type 2 when co-expressed, indicating a dominant negative effect and suggesting a mechanism for regulation of scavenger receptor activity in macrophages. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186038	 The product of this gene belongs to the ligand-gated ion channel receptor superfamily. This gene encodes a subunit E of the type 3 receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin), a biogenic hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter, a hormone, and a mitogen. This receptor causes fast, depolarizing responses in neurons after activation. Genes encoding subunits C, D and E form a cluster on chromosome 3. An alternative splice variant has been described but its full length sequence has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183715	 This gene encodes a member of the IgLON subfamily in the immunoglobulin protein superfamily. The encoded protein is localized in the plasma membrane and may have an accessory role in opioid receptor function. This gene has an ortholog in rat and bovine. The opioid binding-cell adhesion molecule encoded by the rat gene binds opioid alkaloids in the presence of acidic lipids, exhibits selectivity for mu ligands and acts as a GPI-anchored protein. Since the encoded protein is highly conserved in species during evolution, it may have a fundamental role in mammalian systems. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115758	 This gene encodes the rate-limiting enzyme of the polyamine biosynthesis pathway which catalyzes ornithine to putrescine. The activity level for the enzyme varies in response to growth-promoting stimuli and exhibits a high turnover rate in comparison to other mammalian proteins. Originally localized to both chromosomes 2 and 7, the gene encoding this enzyme has been determined to be located on 2p25, with a pseudogene located on 7q31-qter. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134716	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is thought to be the predominant enzyme responsible for epoxidation of endogenous arachidonic acid in cardiac tissue. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000095777	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the myosin superfamily. Myosins are actin-dependent motor proteins and are categorized into conventional myosins (class II) and unconventional myosins (classes I and III through XV) based on their variable C-terminal cargo-binding domains. Class III myosins, such as this one, have a kinase domain N-terminal to the conserved N-terminal motor domains and are expressed in photoreceptors. The protein encoded by this gene plays an important role in hearing in humans. Three different recessive, loss of function mutations in the encoded protein have been shown to cause nonsyndromic progressive hearing loss. Expression of this gene is highly restricted, with the strongest expression in retina and cochlea. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000172673	 This gene encodes a protein that plays a regulatory role in both positive and negative T-cell selection during late thymocyte development. The protein functions through T-cell antigen receptor signaling, and is necessary for proper lineage commitment and maturation of T-cells. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000234616	 This gene is the human homolog of the mouse jerky gene. The encoded protein has similarity to several nuclear regulatory proteins, including centromere protein B, suggesting that it might function as a DNA-binding protein. Insertional inactivation of this gene in transgenic mice resulted in epileptic seizures. Childhood Absence Epilepsy (CAE) has been mapped to the same chromosomal location (8q24.3) as this gene, making this gene a strong candidate for CAE. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163499	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of the vertebrate eye, which function to maintain the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also defined as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Beta-crystallins, the most heterogeneous, differ by the presence of the C-terminal extension (present in the basic group but absent in the acidic group). Beta-crystallins form aggregates of different sizes and are able to form homodimers through self-association or heterodimers with other beta-crystallins. This gene is a beta acidic group member. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding identical proteins have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109610	 This gene encodes a member of the superoxide dismutase (SOD) protein family. SODs are antioxidant enzymes that catalyze the dismutation of two superoxide radicals into hydrogen peroxide and oxygen. The product of this gene is thought to protect the brain, lungs, and other tissues from oxidative stress. The protein is secreted into the extracellular space and forms a glycosylated homotetramer that is anchored to the extracellular matrix (ECM) and cell surfaces through an interaction with heparan sulfate proteoglycan and collagen. A fraction of the protein is cleaved near the C-terminus before secretion to generate circulating tetramers that do not interact with the ECM. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000049239	 There are 2 forms of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. G form is X-linked and H form, encoded by this gene, is autosomally linked. This H form shows activity with other hexose-6-phosphates, especially galactose-6-phosphate, whereas the G form is specific for glucose-6-phosphate. Both forms are present in most tissues, but H form is not found in red cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105996	 In vertebrates, the genes encoding the class of transcription factors called homeobox genes are found in clusters named A, B, C, and D on four separate chromosomes. Expression of these proteins is spatially and temporally regulated during embryonic development. This gene is part of the A cluster on chromosome 7 and encodes a DNA-binding transcription factor which may regulate gene expression, morphogenesis, and differentiation. The encoded protein may be involved in the placement of hindbrain segments in the proper location along the anterior-posterior axis during development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165506	 This gene encodes a highly conserved protein involved in the preassembly of dynein arm complexes which power cilia. These complexes are found in some cilia and are assembled in the cytoplasm prior to transport for cilia formation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000137726	 This gene encodes a member of the FXYD family of transmembrane proteins. This particular protein encodes phosphohippolin, which likely affects the activity of Na,K-ATPase. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 10 and X. Read-through transcripts have been observed between this locus and the downstream sodium/potassium-transporting ATPase subunit gamma (FXYD2, GeneID 486) locus. 
ENSG00000102893	 Phosphorylase kinase is a polymer of 16 subunits, four each of alpha, beta, gamma and delta. The alpha subunit includes the skeletal muscle and hepatic isoforms, encoded by two different genes. The beta subunit is the same in both the muscle and hepatic isoforms, encoded by this gene, which is a member of the phosphorylase b kinase regulatory subunit family. The gamma subunit also includes the skeletal muscle and hepatic isoforms, encoded by two different genes. The delta subunit is a calmodulin and can be encoded by three different genes. The gamma subunits contain the active site of the enzyme, whereas the alpha and beta subunits have regulatory functions controlled by phosphorylation. The delta subunit mediates the dependence of the enzyme on calcium concentration. Mutations in this gene cause glycogen storage disease type 9B, also known as phosphorylase kinase deficiency of liver and muscle. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene. Two pseudogenes have been found on chromosomes 14 and 20, respectively.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000156515	 Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in most glucose metabolism pathways. This gene encodes a ubiquitous form of hexokinase which localizes to the outer membrane of mitochondria. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency. Alternative splicing of this gene results in five transcript variants which encode different isoforms, some of which are tissue-specific. Each isoform has a distinct N-terminus; the remainder of the protein is identical among all the isoforms. A sixth transcript variant has been described, but due to the presence of several stop codons, it is not thought to encode a protein. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000067177	 Phosphorylase kinase is a polymer of 16 subunits, four each of alpha, beta, gamma and delta. The alpha subunit includes the skeletal muscle and hepatic isoforms, and the skeletal muscle isoform is encoded by this gene. The beta subunit is the same in both the muscle and hepatic isoforms, and encoded by one gene. The gamma subunit also includes the skeletal muscle and hepatic isoforms, which are encoded by two different genes. The delta subunit is a calmodulin and can be encoded by three different genes. The gamma subunits contain the active site of the enzyme, whereas the alpha and beta subunits have regulatory functions controlled by phosphorylation. The delta subunit mediates the dependence of the enzyme on calcium concentration. Mutations in this gene cause glycogen storage disease type 9D, also known as X-linked muscle glycogenosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene. A pseudogene has been found on chromosome 1.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000124767	 The enzyme encoded by this gene is responsible for the catalysis and formation of S-lactoyl-glutathione from methylglyoxal condensation and reduced glutatione.  Glyoxalase I is linked to HLA and is localized to 6p21.3-p21.1, between HLA and the centromere. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183862	 The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit of a cyclic nucleotide-gated olfactory channel. The encoded protein contains a carboxy-terminal leucine zipper that mediates channel formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000102243	 The protein encoded by this gene binds proteins of the TEA domain family of transcription factors (TEFs) through the Vg (vestigial) homology region found in its N-terminus. It may thus function as a specific coactivator for the mammalian TEFs. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000131080	 EDA-A1 and EDA-A2 are two isoforms of ectodysplasin that are encoded by the anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia (EDA) gene. Mutations in EDA give rise to a clinical syndrome characterized by loss of hair, sweat glands, and teeth. The protein encoded by this gene specifically binds to EDA-A2 isoform. This protein is a type III transmembrane protein of the TNFR (tumor necrosis factor receptor) superfamily, and contains 3 cysteine-rich repeats and a single transmembrane domain but lacks an N-terminal signal peptide. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000179941	 This gene is a member of the Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) gene family. Bardet-Biedl syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by progressive retinal degeneration, obesity, polydactyly, renal malformation and mental retardation. The proteins encoded by BBS gene family members are structurally diverse and the similar phenotypes exhibited by mutations in BBS gene family members is likely due to their shared roles in cilia formation and function. Many BBS proteins localize to the basal bodies, ciliary axonemes, and pericentriolar regions of cells. BBS proteins may also be involved in intracellular trafficking via microtubule-related transport. The protein encoded by this gene is likely not a ciliary protein but rather has distant sequence homology to type II chaperonins. As a molecular chaperone, this protein may affect the folding or stability of other ciliary or basal body proteins. Inhibition of this protein's expression impairs ciliogenesis in preadipocytes. Mutations in this gene cause Bardet-Biedl syndrome type 10. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000114480	 The protein encoded by this gene is a glycogen branching enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of alpha-1,4-linked glucosyl units from the outer end of a glycogen chain to an alpha-1,6 position on the same or a neighboring glycogen chain. Branching of the chains is essential to increase the solubility of the glycogen molecule and, consequently, in reducing the osmotic pressure within cells. Highest level of this enzyme are found in liver and muscle. Mutations in this gene are associated with glycogen storage disease IV (also known as Andersen's disease). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165509	 This gene is a member of the MAGEC gene family. The members of this family are not expressed in normal tissues, except for testis, and are expressed in tumors of various histological types. The MAGEC genes are clustered on chromosome Xq26-q27. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183454	 N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are a class of ionotropic glutamate-gated ion channels. These receptors have been shown to be involved in long-term potentiation, an activity-dependent increase in the efficiency of synaptic transmission thought to underlie certain kinds of memory and learning. NMDA receptor channels are heteromers composed of the key receptor subunit NMDAR1 (GRIN1) and 1 or more of the 4 NMDAR2 subunits: NMDAR2A (GRIN2A), NMDAR2B (GRIN2B), NMDAR2C (GRIN2C) and NMDAR2D (GRIN2D). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000105991	 In vertebrates, the genes encoding the class of transcription factors called homeobox genes are found in clusters named A, B, C, and D on four separate chromosomes. Expression of these proteins is spatially and temporally regulated during embryonic development. This gene is part of the A cluster on chromosome 7 and encodes a DNA-binding transcription factor which may regulate gene expression, morphogenesis, and differentiation. The encoded protein may be involved in the placement of hindbrain segments in the proper location along the anterior-posterior axis during development. Two transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene, with only one of the isoforms containing the homeodomain region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163464	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein-coupled receptor family. This protein is a receptor for interleukin 8 (IL8). It binds to IL8 with high affinity, and transduces the signal through a G-protein activated second messenger system. Knockout studies in mice suggested that this protein inhibits embryonic oligodendrocyte precursor migration in developing spinal cord. This gene, IL8RB, a gene encoding another high affinity IL8 receptor, as well as IL8RBP, a pseudogene of IL8RB, form a gene cluster in a region mapped to chromosome 2q33-q36. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000111262	 This gene encodes a voltage-gated delayed potassium channel that is phylogenetically related to the Drosophila Shaker channel. The encoded protein has six putative transmembrane segments (S1-S6), and the loop between S5 and S6 forms the pore and contains the conserved selectivity filter motif (GYGD). The functional channel is a homotetramer. The N-terminus of the channel is associated with beta subunits that can modify the inactivation properties of the channel as well as affect expression levels. The C-terminus of the channel is complexed to a PDZ domain protein that is responsible for channel targeting. Mutations in this gene have been associated with myokymia with periodic ataxia (AEMK). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000017260	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases. This magnesium-dependent enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the transport of calcium ions. Defects in this gene cause Hailey-Hailey disease, an autosomal dominant disorder. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000203782	 This gene encodes loricrin, a major protein component of the cornified cell envelope found in terminally differentiated epidermal cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with Vohwinkel's syndrome and progressive symmetric erythrokeratoderma, both inherited skin diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000185231	 MC2R encodes one member of the five-member G-protein associated melanocortin receptor family. Melanocortins (melanocyte-stimulating hormones and adrenocorticotropic hormone) are peptides derived from pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC). MC2R is selectively activated by adrenocorticotropic hormone, whereas the other four melanocortin receptors recognize a variety of melanocortin ligands. Mutations in MC2R can result in familial glucocorticoid deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000073734	 The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance. The protein encoded by this gene is the major canalicular bile salt export pump in man. Mutations in this gene cause a form of progressive familial intrahepatic cholestases which are a group of inherited disorders with severe cholestatic liver disease from early infancy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110092	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance throughout the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with and functions as a regulatory subunit of CDK4 or CDK6, whose activity is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. This protein has been shown to interact with tumor suppressor protein Rb and the expression of this gene is regulated positively by Rb. Mutations, amplification and overexpression of this gene, which alters cell cycle progression, are observed frequently in a variety of tumors and may contribute to tumorigenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132470	 Integrins are heterodimers comprised of alpha and beta subunits, that are noncovalently associated transmembrane glycoprotein receptors. Different combinations of alpha and beta polypeptides form complexes that vary in their ligand-binding specificities. Integrins mediate cell-matrix or cell-cell adhesion, and transduced signals that regulate gene expression and cell growth. This gene encodes the integrin beta 4 subunit, a receptor for the laminins. This subunit tends to associate with alpha 6 subunit and is likely to play a pivotal role in the biology of invasive carcinoma. Mutations in this gene are associated with epidermolysis bullosa with pyloric atresia. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168610	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT protein family. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers that translocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators. This protein is activated through phosphorylation in response to various cytokines and growth factors including IFNs, EGF, IL5, IL6, HGF, LIF and BMP2. This protein mediates the expression of a variety of genes in response to cell stimuli, and thus plays a key role in many cellular processes such as cell growth and apoptosis. The small GTPase Rac1 has been shown to bind and regulate the activity of this protein. PIAS3 protein is a specific inhibitor of this protein. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196878	 The product encoded by this gene is a laminin that belongs to a family of basement membrane proteins. This protein is a beta subunit laminin, which together with an alpha and a gamma subunit, forms laminin-5. Mutations in this gene cause epidermolysis bullosa junctional Herlitz type, and generalized atrophic benign epidermolysis bullosa, diseases that are characterized by blistering of the skin. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119655	 This gene encodes a protein containing a lipid recognition domain. The encoded protein may function in regulating the transport of cholesterol through the late endosomal/lysosomal system. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Niemann-Pick disease, type C2 and frontal lobe atrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000254647	 After removal of the precursor signal peptide, proinsulin is post-translationally cleaved into three peptides: the B chain and A chain peptides, which are covalently linked via two disulfide bonds to form insulin, and C-peptide. Binding of insulin to the insulin receptor (INSR) stimulates glucose uptake. A multitude of mutant alleles with phenotypic effects have been identified. There is a read-through gene, INS-IGF2, which overlaps with this gene at the 5' region and with the IGF2 gene at the 3' region. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000105379	 This gene encodes electron-transfer-flavoprotein, beta polypeptide, which shuttles electrons between primary flavoprotein dehydrogenases involved in mitochondrial fatty acid and amino acid catabolism and the membrane-bound electron transfer flavoprotein ubiquinone oxidoreductase. The gene deficiencies have been implicated in type II glutaricaciduria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116062	 This gene encodes a protein similar to the MutS protein. In E. coli, the MutS protein helps in the recognition of mismatched nucleotides, prior to their repair. A highly conserved region of approximately 150 aa, called the Walker-A adenine nucleotide binding motif, exists in MutS homologs. The encoded protein of this gene combines with MSH2 to form a mismatch recognition complex that functions as a bidirectional molecular switch that exchanges ADP and ATP as DNA mismatches are bound and dissociated. Mutations in this gene have been identified in individuals with hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC) and endometrial cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000180432	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein catalyzes the conversion of 7 alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one into 7-alpha,12-alpha-dihydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one. The balance between these two steroids determines the relative amounts of cholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid both of which are secreted in the bile and affect the solubility of cholesterol. This gene is unique among the cytochrome P450 genes in that it is intronless. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186115	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. The enzyme starts the process of inactivating and degrading leukotriene B4, a potent mediator of inflammation. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19. Another member of this family, CYP4F11, is approximately 16 kb away. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138115	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by phenobarbital. The enzyme is known to metabolize many xenobiotics, including the anticonvulsive drug mephenytoin, benzo(a)pyrene, 7-ethyoxycoumarin, and the anti-cancer drug taxol. This gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24. Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000140459	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the mitochondrial inner membrane and catalyzes the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone, the first and rate-limiting step in the synthesis of the steroid hormones. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The cellular location of the smaller isoform is unclear since it lacks the mitochondrial-targeting transit peptide. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000203618	 Platelet glycoprotein Ib (GPIb) is a heterodimeric transmembrane protein consisting of a disulfide-linked 140 kD alpha chain and 22 kD beta chain. It is part of the GPIb-V-IX system that constitutes the receptor for von Willebrand factor (VWF), and mediates platelet adhesion in the arterial circulation. GPIb alpha chain provides the VWF binding site, and GPIb beta contributes to surface expression of the receptor and participates in transmembrane signaling through phosphorylation of its intracellular domain. Mutations in the GPIb beta subunit have been associated with Bernard-Soulier syndrome, velocardiofacial syndrome and giant platelet disorder. The 206 amino acid precursor of GPIb beta is synthesized from a 1.0 kb mRNA expressed in plateletes and megakaryocytes. A 411 amino acid protein arising from a longer, unspliced transcript in endothelial cells has been described; however, the authenticity of this product has been questioned. Yet another less abundant GPIb beta mRNA species of 3.5 kb, expressed in nonhematopoietic tissues such as endothelium, brain and heart, was shown to result from inefficient usage of a non-consensus polyA signal in the neighboring upstream gene (SEPT5, septin 5). In the absence of polyadenylation from its own imperfect site, the SEPT5 gene produces read-through transcripts that use the consensus polyA signal of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000005471	 The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.  ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes.  ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).  This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance as well as antigen presentation.  This gene encodes a full transporter and member of the p-glycoprotein family of membrane proteins with phosphatidylcholine as its substrate.  The function of this protein has not yet been determined; however, it may involve transport of phospholipids from liver hepatocytes into bile.  Alternative splicing of this gene results in several products of undetermined function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102393	 This gene encodes a homodimeric glycoprotein that hydrolyses the terminal alpha-galactosyl moieties from glycolipids and glycoproteins. This enzyme predominantly hydrolyzes ceramide trihexoside, and it can catalyze the hydrolysis of melibiose into galactose and glucose. A variety of mutations in this gene affect the synthesis, processing, and stability of this enzyme, which causes Fabry disease, a rare lysosomal storage disorder that results from a failure to catabolize alpha-D-galactosyl glycolipid moieties. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000033327	 This gene is a member of the GRB2-associated binding protein (GAB) gene family. These proteins contain pleckstrin homology (PH) domain, and bind SHP2 tyrosine phosphatase and GRB2 adapter protein. They act as adapters for transmitting various signals in response to stimuli through cytokine and growth factor receptors, and T- and B-cell antigen receptors. The protein encoded by this gene is the principal activator of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase in response to activation of the high affinity IgE receptor. Two alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000152291	 This gene encodes a type I integral membrane protein that is localized to the trans-Golgi network, a major sorting station for secretory and membrane proteins. The encoded protein cycles between early endosomes and the trans-Golgi network, and may play a role in exocytic vesicle formation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000068831	 The protein encoded by this gene is a brain-enriched nucleotide exchanged factor that contains an N-terminal GEF domain, 2 tandem repeats of EF-hand calcium-binding motifs, and a C-terminal diacylglycerol/phorbol ester-binding domain. This protein can activate small GTPases, including RAS and RAP1/RAS3. The nucleotide exchange activity of this protein can be stimulated by calcium and diacylglycerol. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000095585	 This gene encodes a cytoplasmic linker or adaptor protein that plays a critical role in B cell development. This protein bridges B cell receptor-associated kinase activation with downstream signaling pathways, thereby affecting various biological functions. The phosphorylation of five tyrosine residues is necessary for this protein to nucleate distinct signaling effectors following B cell receptor activation. Mutations in this gene cause hypoglobulinemia and absent B cells, a disease in which the pro- to pre-B-cell transition is developmentally blocked. Deficiency in this protein has also been shown in some cases of pre-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000143390	 A lack of MHC-II expression results in a severe immunodeficiency syndrome called MHC-II deficiency, or the bare lymphocyte syndrome (BLS; MIM 209920). At least 4 complementation groups have been identified in B-cell lines established from patients with BLS. The molecular defects in complementation groups B, C, and D all lead to a deficiency in RFX, a nuclear protein complex that binds to the X box of MHC-II promoters. The lack of RFX binding activity in complementation group C results from mutations in the RFX5 gene encoding the 75-kD subunit of RFX (Steimle et al., 1995). RFX5 is the fifth member of the growing family of DNA-binding proteins sharing a novel and highly characteristic DNA-binding domain called the RFX motif. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found but the full-length natures of only two have been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100906	 This gene encodes a member of the NF-kappa-B inhibitor family, which contain multiple ankrin repeat domains. The encoded protein interacts with REL dimers to inhibit NF-kappa-B/REL complexes which are involved in inflammatory responses. The encoded protein moves between the cytoplasm and the nucleus via a nuclear localization signal and CRM1-mediated nuclear export. Mutations in this gene have been found in ectodermal dysplasia anhidrotic with T-cell immunodeficiency autosomal dominant disease. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000213281	 This is an N-ras oncogene encoding a membrane protein that shuttles between the Golgi apparatus and the plasma membrane. This shuttling is regulated through palmitoylation and depalmitoylation by the ZDHHC9-GOLGA7 complex. The encoded protein, which has intrinsic GTPase activity, is activated by a guanine nucleotide-exchange factor and inactivated by a GTPase activating protein. Mutations in this gene have been associated with somatic rectal cancer, follicular thyroid cancer, autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome, Noonan syndrome, and juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000175097	 This gene encodes a protein that is involved in the initiation of V(D)J recombination during B and T cell development. This protein forms a complex with the product of the adjacent recombination activating gene 1, and this complex can form double-strand breaks by cleaving DNA at conserved recombination signal sequences. The recombination activating gene 1 component is thought to contain most of the catalytic activity, while the N-terminal of the recombination activating gene 2 component is thought to form a six-bladed propeller in the active core that serves as a binding scaffold for the tight association of the complex with DNA. A C-terminal plant homeodomain finger-like motif in this protein is necessary for interactions with chromatin components, specifically with histone H3 that is trimethylated at lysine 4. Mutations in this gene cause Omenn syndrome, a form of severe combined immunodeficiency associated with autoimmune-like symptoms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159958	 B cell-activating factor (BAFF) enhances B-cell survival in vitro and is a regulator of the peripheral B-cell population. Overexpression of Baff in mice results in mature B-cell hyperplasia and symptoms of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Also, some SLE patients have increased levels of BAFF in serum. Therefore, it has been proposed that abnormally high levels of BAFF may contribute to the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases by enhancing the survival of autoreactive B cells. The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for BAFF and is a type III transmembrane protein containing a single extracellular cysteine-rich domain. It is thought that this receptor is the principal receptor required for BAFF-mediated mature B-cell survival. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104044	 This gene encodes the human homologue of the mouse p (pink-eyed dilution) gene. The encoded protein is believed to be an integral membrane protein involved in small molecule transport, specifically tyrosine - a precursor of melanin. Mutations in this gene result in type 2 oculocutaneous albinism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188992	 The protein encoded by this gene is a phospholipase that hydrolyzes phosphatidic acid to produce lysophosphatidic acid. The encoded protein, which can be inhibited by sodium vanadate, may be found exclusively in sperm. Defects in this gene are a cause of susceptibility to familial hypertrigliceridemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000121897	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the biotin and lipoic acid synthetases family. It localizes in mitochondrion and plays an important role in alpha-(+)-lipoic acid synthesis. It may also function in the sulfur insertion chemistry in lipoate biosynthesis. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163217	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TGF-beta family of growth factors. Data suggest that the similar protein in mouse plays an important role in trabeculation of the embryonic heart. In human, this protein may signal through receptor serine/threonine kinases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168036	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of a complex of proteins that constitute adherens junctions (AJs). AJs are necessary for the creation and maintenance of epithelial cell layers by regulating cell growth and adhesion between cells. The encoded protein also anchors the actin cytoskeleton and may be responsible for transmitting the contact inhibition signal that causes cells to stop dividing once the epithelial sheet is complete. Finally, this protein binds to the product of the APC gene, which is mutated in adenomatous polyposis of the colon. Mutations in this gene are a cause of colorectal cancer (CRC), pilomatrixoma (PTR), medulloblastoma (MDB), and ovarian cancer. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000094914	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the WD-repeat family of regulatory proteins and may be involved in normal development of the peripheral and central nervous system. The encoded protein is part of the nuclear pore complex and is anchored there by NDC1. Defects in this gene are a cause of achalasia-addisonianism-alacrima syndrome (AAAS), also called triple-A syndrome or Allgrove syndrome. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000254585	 Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is caused by the loss of expression of imprinted genes in chromosome 15q11-q13 region. Affected individuals exhibit neonatal hypotonia, developmental delay, and childhood-onset obesity. Necdin (NDN), a gene involved in the terminal differentiation of neurons, localizes to this region of the genome and has been implicated as one of the genes responsible for the etiology of PWS. This gene is structurally similar to NDN, is also localized to the PWS chromosomal region, and is paternally imprinted, suggesting a possible role for it in PWS. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000121933	 This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the family of adenosine receptors, which are G-protein-coupled receptors that are involved in a variety of intracellular signaling pathways and physiological functions. The receptor encoded by this gene mediates a sustained cardioprotective function during cardiac ischemia, it is involved in the inhibition of neutrophil degranulation in neutrophil-mediated tissue injury, it has been implicated in both neuroprotective and neurodegenerative effects, and it may also mediate both cell proliferation and cell death. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000076351	 This gene encodes a transmembrane proton-coupled folate transporter protein that facilitates the movement of folate and antifolate substrates across cell membranes, optimally in acidic pH environments. This protein is also expressed in the brain and choroid plexus where it transports folates into the central nervous system. This protein further functions as a heme transporter in duodenal enterocytes, and potentially in other tissues like liver and kidney. Its localization to the apical membrane or cytoplasm of intestinal cells is modulated by dietary iron levels. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive hereditary folate malabsorption (HFM) disease. HFM is characterized by folate deficiency due to reduced intestinal folate absorption and subsequent anemia, hypoimmunoglobulinemia, and recurrent infections. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000158234	 The protein encoded by this gene protects against death receptor-triggered apoptosis and regulates B-cell signaling and differentiation. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000174516	 The protein encoded by this gene is a scaffold protein and an intermediate signaling protein in the innate immune response pathway. The encoded protein helps transmit the immune response signal from Toll-like receptors to IRAK1/TRAF6 complexes. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000104237	 This gene encodes a member of the doublecortin family. The protein encoded by this gene contains two doublecortin domains, which bind microtubules and regulate microtubule polymerization. The encoded protein is a photoreceptor microtubule-associated protein and is required for correct stacking of outer segment disc. This protein and the RP1L1 protein, another retinal-specific protein, play essential and synergistic roles in affecting photosensitivity and outer segment morphogenesis of rod photoreceptors. Because of its response to in vivo retinal oxygen levels, this protein was initially named ORP1 (oxygen-regulated protein-1). This protein was subsequently designated RP1 (retinitis pigmentosa 1) when it was found that mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa. Mutations in this gene also cause autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa. Transcript variants resulted from an alternative promoter and alternative splicings have been found, which overlap the current reference sequence and has several exons upstream and downstream of the current reference sequence. However, the biological validity and full-length nature of some variants cannot be determined at this time.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000179583	 This gene encodes a protein with an acidic transcriptional activation domain, 4 LRRs (leucine-rich repeats) and a GTP binding domain. The protein is located in the nucleus and acts as a positive regulator of class II major histocompatibility complex gene transcription, and is referred to as the 'master control factor' for the expression of these genes. The protein also binds GTP and uses GTP binding to facilitate its own transport into the nucleus. Once in the nucleus it does not bind DNA but rather uses an intrinsic acetyltransferase (AT) activity to act in a coactivator-like fashion. Mutations in this gene have been associated with bare lymphocyte syndrome type II (also known as hereditary MHC class II deficiency or HLA class II-deficient combined immunodeficiency), increased susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, and possibly myocardial infarction. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000005381	 Myeloperoxidase (MPO) is a heme protein synthesized during myeloid differentiation that constitutes the major component of neutrophil azurophilic granules. Produced as a single chain precursor, myeloperoxidase is subsequently cleaved into a light and heavy chain.  The mature myeloperoxidase is a tetramer composed of 2 light chains and 2 heavy chains. This enzyme produces hypohalous acids central to the microbicidal activity of netrophils. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197561	 Elastases form a subfamily of serine proteases that hydrolyze many proteins in addition to elastin. Humans have six elastase genes which encode the structurally similar proteins. The product of this gene hydrolyzes proteins within specialized neutrophil lysosomes, called azurophil granules, as well as proteins of the extracellular matrix following the protein's release from activated neutrophils. The enzyme may play a role in degenerative and inflammatory diseases by its proteolysis of collagen-IV and elastin of the extracellular matrix. This protein degrades the outer membrane protein A (OmpA) of E. coli as well as the virulence factors of such bacteria as Shigella, Salmonella and Yersinia. Mutations in this gene are associated with cyclic neutropenia and severe congenital neutropenia (SCN). This gene is clustered with other serine protease gene family members, azurocidin 1 and proteinase 3 genes, at chromosome 19pter. All 3 genes are expressed coordinately and their protein products are packaged together into azurophil granules during neutrophil differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000149131	 This gene encodes a highly glycosylated plasma protein involved in the regulation of the complement cascade. Its protein inhibits activated C1r and C1s of the first complement component and thus regulates complement activation. Deficiency of this protein is associated with hereditary angioneurotic oedema (HANE). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same isoform. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115380	 This gene encodes a member of the fibulin family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins. Like all members of this family, the encoded protein contains tandemly repeated epidermal growth factor-like repeats followed by a C-terminus fibulin-type domain. This gene is upregulated in malignant gliomas and may play a role in the aggressive nature of these tumors. Mutations in this gene are associated with Doyne honeycomb retinal dystrophy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000134987	 This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with adult-onset primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106331	 This gene is a member of the paired box (PAX) family of transcription factors. Members of this gene family typically contain a paired box domain, an octapeptide, and a paired-type homeodomain. These genes play critical roles during fetal development and cancer growth. The paired box 4 gene is involved in pancreatic islet development and mouse studies have demonstrated a role for this gene in differentiation of insulin-producing beta cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162552	 The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family, and is the first signaling molecule shown to influence the sex-determination cascade. It encodes a protein which shows 98% amino acid identity to the Wnt4 protein of mouse and rat. This gene and a nuclear receptor known to antagonize the testis-determining factor play a concerted role in both the control of female development and the prevention of testes formation. This gene and another two family members, WNT2 and WNT7B, may be associated with abnormal proliferation in breast tissue. Mutations in this gene can result in Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser syndrome and in SERKAL syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102316	 This gene is a member of the MAGED gene family. While the MAGEA and MAGEB genes are silent in normal tissues with the exception of testis and placenta, the MAGED genes are expressed ubiquitously. The MAGED genes are clustered on chromosome Xp11. This gene is located in Xp11.2, a hot spot for X-linked mental retardation (XLMR). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene, however, the full length nature of some variants has not been defined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157625	 The product of this gene functions in the NF-kappaB signal transduction pathway. The encoded protein, and the similar and functionally redundant protein MAP3K7IP2/TAB2, forms a ternary complex with the protein kinase MAP3K7/TAK1 and either TRAF2 or TRAF6 in response to stimulation with the pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF or IL-1. Subsequent MAP3K7/TAK1 kinase activity triggers a signaling cascade leading to activation of the NF-kappaB transcription factor. The human genome contains a related pseudogene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000139549	 This gene encodes a member of the hedgehog family. The hedgehog gene family encodes signaling molecules that play an important role in regulating morphogenesis. This protein is predicted to be made as a precursor that is autocatalytically cleaved; the N-terminal portion is soluble and contains the signalling activity while the C-terminal portion is involved in precursor processing. More importantly, the C-terminal product covalently attaches a cholesterol moiety to the N-terminal product, restricting the N-terminal product to the cell surface and preventing it from freely diffusing throughout the organism. Defects in this protein have been associated with partial gonadal dysgenesis (PGD) accompanied by minifascicular polyneuropathy. This protein may be involved in both male gonadal differentiation and perineurial development. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000131724	 The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the interleukin 13 receptor. This subunit forms a receptor complex with IL4 receptor alpha, a subunit shared by IL13 and IL4 receptors. This subunit serves as a primary IL13-binding subunit of the IL13 receptor, and may also be a component of IL4 receptors. This protein has been shown to bind tyrosine kinase TYK2, and thus may mediate the signaling processes that lead to the activation of JAK1, STAT3 and STAT6 induced by IL13 and IL4. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106348	 The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homotetramer to regulate cell growth. The encoded protein is an enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of xanthine monophosphate (XMP) from inosine-5'-monophosphate (IMP). This is the rate-limiting step in the de novo synthesis of guanine nucleotides. Defects in this gene are a cause of retinitis pigmentosa type 10 (RP10). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000107618	 Interphotoreceptor retinol-binding protein is a large glycoprotein known to bind retinoids and found primarily in the interphotoreceptor matrix of the retina between the retinal pigment epithelium and the photoreceptor cells. It is thought to transport retinoids between the retinal pigment epithelium and the photoreceptors, a critical role in the visual process.The human IRBP gene is approximately 9.5 kbp in length and consists of four exons separated by three introns. The introns are 1.6-1.9 kbp long. The gene is transcribed by photoreceptor and retinoblastoma cells into an approximately 4.3-kilobase mRNA that is translated and processed into a glycosylated protein of 135,000 Da. The amino acid sequence of human IRBP can be divided into four contiguous homology domains with 33-38% identity, suggesting a series of gene duplication events. In the gene, the boundaries of these domains are not defined by exon-intron junctions, as might have been expected. The first three homology domains and part of the fourth are all encoded by the first large exon, which is 3,180 base pairs long. The remainder of the fourth domain is encoded in the last three exons, which are 191, 143, and approximately 740 base pairs long, respectively. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000150275	 This gene is a member of the cadherin superfamily. Family members encode integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion. It plays an essential role in maintenance of normal retinal and cochlear function. Mutations in this gene result in hearing loss and Usher Syndrome Type IF (USH1F). Extensive alternative splicing resulting in multiple isoforms has been observed in the mouse ortholog. Similar alternatively spliced transcripts are inferred to occur in human, and additional variants are likely to occur. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000131238	 The protein encoded by this gene is a small glycoprotein involved in the catabolism of lipid-modified proteins during lysosomal degradation. The encoded enzyme removes thioester-linked fatty acyl groups such as palmitate from cysteine residues. Defects in this gene are a cause of infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 1 (CLN1, or INCL) and neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 4 (CLN4). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000196689	 Capsaicin, the main pungent ingredient in hot chili peppers, elicits a sensation of burning pain by selectively activating sensory neurons that convey information about noxious stimuli to the central nervous system. The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for capsaicin and is a non-selective cation channel that is structurally related to members of the TRP family of ion channels. This receptor is also activated by increases in temperature in the noxious range, suggesting that it functions as a transducer of painful thermal stimuli in vivo. Four transcript variants encoding the same protein, but with different 5' UTR sequence, have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134982	 This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein that acts as an antagonist of the Wnt signaling pathway. It is also involved in other processes including cell migration and adhesion, transcriptional activation, and apoptosis. Defects in this gene cause familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), an autosomal dominant pre-malignant disease that usually progresses to malignancy. Disease-associated mutations tend to be clustered in a small region designated the mutation cluster region (MCR) and result in a truncated protein product. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104728	 Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processes that are initiated by extracellular stimuli that work through G protein coupled receptors. The encoded protein may form complex with G proteins and stimulate Rho-dependent signals. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000150281	 The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted cytokine that induces cardiac myocyte hypertrophy in vitro. It has been shown to bind and activate the ILST/gp130 receoptor. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000091137	 Mutations in this gene are associated with Pendred syndrome, the most common form of syndromic deafness, an autosomal-recessive disease. It is highly homologous to the SLC26A3 gene; they have similar genomic structures and this gene is located 3' of the SLC26A3 gene. The encoded protein has homology to sulfate transporters. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126522	 This gene encodes a member of the lyase 1 family. The encoded protein forms a cytosolic homotetramer and primarily catalyzes the reversible hydrolytic cleavage of argininosuccinate into arginine and fumarate, an essential step in the liver in detoxifying ammonia via the urea cycle. Mutations in this gene result in the autosomal recessive disorder argininosuccinic aciduria, or argininosuccinic acid lyase deficiency. A nontranscribed pseudogene is also located on the long arm of chromosome 22. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000049167	 This gene encodes a WD repeat protein, which interacts with Cockayne syndrome type B (CSB) protein and with p44 protein, a subunit of the RNA polymerase II transcription factor IIH. Mutations in this gene have been identified in patients with hereditary disease Cockayne syndrome (CS). CS cells are abnormally sensitive to ultraviolet radiation and are defective in the repair of transcriptionally active genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000096696	 Desmosomes are intercellular junctions that tightly link adjacent cells. Desmoplakin is an obligate component of functional desmosomes that anchors intermediate filaments to desmosomal plaques. The N-terminus of desmoplakin is required for localization to the desmosome and interacts with the N-terminal region of plakophilin 1 and plakoglobin. The C-terminus of desmoplakin binds with intermediate filaments. In the mid-region of desmoplakin, a coiled-coiled rod domain is responsible for homodimerization. Mutations in this gene are the cause of several cardiomyopathies and keratodermas as well as the autoimmune disease paraneoplastic pemphigus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000118729	 The protein encoded by this gene specifies the cardiac muscle family member of the calsequestrin family. Calsequestrin is localized to the sarcoplasmic reticulum in cardiac and slow skeletal muscle cells. The protein is a calcium binding protein that stores calcium for muscle function. Mutations in this gene cause stress-induced polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, also referred to as catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia 2 (CPVT2), a disease characterized by bidirectional ventricular tachycardia that may lead to cardiac arrest. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159197	 Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. This gene encodes a member of the potassium channel, voltage-gated, isk-related subfamily. This member is a small integral membrane subunit that assembles with the KCNH2 gene product, a pore-forming protein, to alter its function. This gene is expressed in heart and muscle and the gene mutations are associated with cardiac arrhythmia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188641	 The protein encoded by this gene is a pyrimidine catabolic enzyme and the initial and rate-limiting factor in the pathway of uracil and thymidine catabolism. Mutations in this gene result in dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency, an error in pyrimidine metabolism associated with thymine-uraciluria and an increased risk of toxicity in cancer patients receiving 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000132386	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serpin family, although it does not display the serine protease inhibitory activity shown by many of the other serpin family members. The encoded protein is secreted and strongly inhibits angiogenesis. In addition, this protein is a neurotrophic factor involved in neuronal differentiation in retinoblastoma cells.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000067955	 The protein encoded by this gene is the beta subunit of a heterodimeric core-binding transcription factor belonging to the PEBP2/CBF transcription factor family which master-regulates a host of genes specific to hematopoiesis (e.g., RUNX1) and osteogenesis (e.g., RUNX2). The beta subunit is a non-DNA binding regulatory subunit; it allosterically enhances DNA binding by alpha subunit as the complex binds to the core site of various enhancers and promoters, including murine leukemia virus, polyomavirus enhancer, T-cell receptor enhancers and GM-CSF promoters. Alternative splicing generates two mRNA variants, each encoding a distinct carboxyl terminus. In some cases, a pericentric inversion of chromosome 16 [inv(16)(p13q22)] produces a chimeric transcript consisting of the N terminus of core-binding factor beta in a fusion with the C-terminal portion of the smooth muscle myosin heavy chain 11. This chromosomal rearrangement is associated with acute myeloid leukemia of the M4Eo subtype. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166762	 Calcium ions play a primary role in the regulation of sperm motility. This gene belongs to a family of putative cation channels that are specific to spermatozoa and localize to the flagellum. The protein family features a single repeat with six membrane-spanning segments and a predicted calcium-selective pore region. This gene is part of a tandem repeat on chromosome 15q15; the second copy of this gene is thought to be a pseudogene. Additional splice variants have been described but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000213918	 This gene encodes a member of the DNase family. This protein is stored in the zymogen granules of the nuclear envelope and functions by cleaving DNA in an endonucleolytic manner. At least six autosomal codominant alleles have been characterized, DNASE1*1 through DNASE1*6, and the sequence of DNASE1*2 represented in this record. Mutations in this gene have been associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), an autoimmune disease. A recombinant form of this protein is used to treat the one of the symptoms of cystic fibrosis by hydrolyzing the extracellular DNA in sputum and reducing its viscosity. Alternate transcriptional splice variants of this gene have been observed but have not been thoroughly characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147257	 Cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans are composed of a membrane-associated protein core substituted with a variable number of heparan sulfate chains. Members of the glypican-related integral membrane proteoglycan family (GRIPS) contain a core protein anchored to the cytoplasmic membrane via a glycosyl phosphatidylinositol linkage. These proteins may play a role in the control of cell division and growth regulation. The protein encoded by this gene can bind to and inhibit the dipeptidyl peptidase activity of CD26, and it can induce apoptosis in certain cell types. Deletion mutations in this gene are associated with Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome, also known as Simpson dysmorphia syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000110931	 The product of this gene belongs to the Serine/Threonine protein kinase family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. The major isoform of this gene plays a role in the calcium/calmodulin-dependent (CaM) kinase cascade by phosphorylating the downstream kinases CaMK1 and CaMK4. Protein products of this gene also phosphorylate AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). This gene has its strongest expression in the brain and influences signalling cascades involved with learning and memory, neuronal differentiation and migration, neurite outgrowth, and synapse formation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. The identified isoforms differ in their ability to undergo autophosphorylation and to phosphorylate downstream kinases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000108381	 This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of N-acetyl_L-aspartic acid (NAA) to aspartate and acetate. NAA is abundant in the brain where hydrolysis by aspartoacylase is thought to help maintain white matter. This protein is an NAA scavenger in other tissues. Mutations in this gene cause Canavan disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171680	 This gene encodes a protein that activates the nuclear factor kappa B (NFKB1) signaling pathway. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive distal spinal muscular atrophy. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000105227	 This gene encodes a protein involved in peripheral nerve myelin upkeep. The encoded protein contains 2 PDZ domains which were named after PSD95 (post synaptic density protein), DlgA (Drosophila disc large tumor suppressor), and ZO1 (a mammalian tight junction protein). Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene which encode different protein isoforms and which are targeted differently in the Schwann cell. Mutations in this gene cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuoropathy, type 4F and Dejerine-Sottas neuropathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000122591	 The protein encoded by this gene may play a part in the beta-catenin/Lef signaling pathway. Expression of this gene is down-regulated by beta-catenin. Defects in this gene are a cause of hypomyelination with congenital cataract (HCC). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000107890	 This gene encodes a protein containing N-terminal ankyrin repeats which function in protein-protein interactions. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant thrombocytopenia-2. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosome 7, 10, 13 and 16. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000101596	 This gene encodes a protein which contains a hinge region domain found in members of the SMC (structural maintenance of chromosomes) protein family. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000215203	 This gene is one of 60 loci associated with autosomal-recessive nonsyndromic hearing impairment. This gene encodes a protein which contains GRX-like domains; these domains play a role in the S-glutathionylation of proteins and may be involved in actin organization in hair cells. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000100596	 This gene encodes a long chain base subunit of serine palmitoyltransferase. Serine palmitoyltransferase, which consists of two different subunits, is the key enzyme in sphingolipid biosynthesis. It catalyzes the pyridoxal-5-prime-phosphate-dependent condensation of L-serine and palmitoyl-CoA to 3-oxosphinganine. Mutations in this gene were identified in patients with hereditary sensory neuropathy type I. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000162711	 This gene encodes a pyrin-like protein containing a pyrin domain, a nucleotide-binding site (NBS) domain, and a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) motif. This protein interacts with the apoptosis-associated speck-like protein PYCARD/ASC, which contains a caspase recruitment domain, and is a member of the NALP3 inflammasome complex. This complex functions as an upstream activator of NF-kappaB signaling, and it plays a role in the regulation of inflammation, the immune response, and apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are associated with familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome (FCAS), Muckle-Wells syndrome (MWS), chronic infantile neurological cutaneous and articular (CINCA) syndrome, and neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease (NOMID). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. Alternative 5' UTR structures are suggested by available data; however, insufficient evidence is available to determine if all of the represented 5' UTR splice patterns are biologically valid. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000197386	 Huntingtin is a disease gene linked to Huntington's disease, a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of striatal neurons. This is thought to be caused by an expanded, unstable trinucleotide repeat in the huntingtin gene, which translates as a polyglutamine repeat in the protein product. A fairly broad range in the number of trinucleotide repeats has been identified in normal controls, and repeat numbers in excess of 40 have been described as pathological. The huntingtin locus is large, spanning 180 kb and consisting of 67 exons. The huntingtin gene is widely expressed and is required for normal development. It is expressed as 2 alternatively polyadenylated forms displaying different relative abundance in various fetal and adult tissues. The larger transcript is approximately 13.7 kb and is expressed predominantly in adult and fetal brain whereas the smaller transcript of approximately 10.3 kb is more widely expressed. The genetic defect leading to Huntington's disease may not necessarily eliminate transcription, but may confer a new property on the mRNA or alter the function of the protein. One candidate is the huntingtin-associated protein-1, highly expressed in brain, which has increased affinity for huntingtin protein with expanded polyglutamine repeats. This gene contains an upstream open reading frame in the 5' UTR that inhibits expression of the huntingtin gene product through translational repression. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000151704	 Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where they participate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassium channel. It is activated by internal ATP and probably plays an important role in potassium homeostasis. The encoded protein has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell. Mutations in this gene have been associated with antenatal Bartter syndrome, which is characterized by salt wasting, hypokalemic alkalosis, hypercalciuria, and low blood pressure. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125675	 Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. These receptors are heteromeric protein complexes composed of multiple subunits, arranged to form ligand-gated ion channels. The classification of glutamate receptors is based on their activation by different pharmacologic agonists. The subunit encoded by this gene belongs to a family of AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate)-sensitive glutamate receptors, and is subject to RNA editing (AGA->GGA; R->G). Alternative splicing at this locus results in different isoforms, which may vary in their signal transduction properties. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000089177	 The protein encoded by this gene is a kinesin-like protein that may be involved in intracellular trafficking. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000135902	 The acetylcholine receptor of muscle has 5 subunits of 4 different types: 2 alpha and 1 each of beta, gamma and delta subunits. After acetylcholine binding, the receptor undergoes an extensive conformation change that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. Defects in this gene are a cause of multiple pterygium syndrome lethal type (MUPSL), congenital myasthenic syndrome slow-channel type (SCCMS), and congenital myasthenic syndrome fast-channel type (FCCMS). Several transcript variants, some protein-coding and some not, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000160716	 Neuronal acetylcholine receptors are homo- or heteropentameric complexes composed of homologous alpha and beta subunits. They belong to a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels which allow the flow of sodium and potassium across the plasma membrane in response to ligands such as acetylcholine and nicotine. This gene encodes one of several beta subunits. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170175	 The muscle acetylcholine receptor is composed of five subunits: two alpha subunits and one beta, one gamma, and one delta subunit. This gene encodes the beta subunit of the acetylcholine receptor. The acetylcholine receptor changes conformation upon acetylcholine binding leading to the opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. Mutations in this gene are associated with slow-channel congenital myasthenic syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000129757	 This gene is imprinted, with preferential expression of the maternal allele. The encoded protein is a tight-binding, strong inhibitor of several G1 cyclin/Cdk complexes and a negative regulator of cell proliferation. Mutations in this gene are implicated in sporadic cancers and Beckwith-Wiedemann syndorome, suggesting that this gene is a tumor suppressor candidate. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000124813	 This gene is a member of the RUNX family of transcription factors and encodes a nuclear protein with an Runt DNA-binding domain. This protein is essential for osteoblastic differentiation and skeletal morphogenesis and acts as a scaffold for nucleic acids and regulatory factors involved in skeletal gene expression. The protein can bind DNA both as a monomer or, with more affinity, as a subunit of a heterodimeric complex. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the bone development disorder cleidocranial dysplasia (CCD). Transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms result from the use of alternate promoters as well as alternate splicing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132740	 This gene encodes a helicase superfamily member that binds a specific DNA sequence from the immunoglobulin mu chain switch region. Mutations in this gene lead to spinal muscle atrophy with respiratory distress type 1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000199158	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AC084864.4. 
ENSG00000110651	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins. This protein appears to promote muscle cell fusion and support myotube maintenance. Also it may be involved in signal transduction. This gene is localized in the tumor-suppressor gene region and thus it is a candidate gene for malignancies. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178567	 The EPM2A gene, which encodes laforin, is mutated in an autosomal recessive form of adolescent progressive myoclonus epilepsy. The protein encoded by this gene binds to laforin, but its function is not known. This gene is intronless. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000156738	 This gene encodes a member of the membrane-spanning 4A gene family. Members of this nascent protein family are characterized by common structural features and similar intron/exon splice boundaries and display unique expression patterns among hematopoietic cells and nonlymphoid tissues. This gene encodes a B-lymphocyte surface molecule which plays a role in the development and differentiation of B-cells into plasma cells. This family member is localized to 11q12, among a cluster of family members. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants which encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000083444	 Lysyl hydroxylase is a membrane-bound homodimeric protein localized to the cisternae of the endoplasmic reticulum. The enzyme (cofactors iron and ascorbate) catalyzes the hydroxylation of lysyl residues in collagen-like peptides. The resultant hydroxylysyl groups are attachment sites for carbohydrates in collagen and thus are critical for the stability of intermolecular crosslinks. Some patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VI have deficiencies in lysyl hydroxylase activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114209	 This gene encodes an evolutionarily conserved protein associated with cell apoptosis. The protein interacts with the serine/threonine protein kinase MST4 to modulate the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway. It also interacts with and is phosphoryated by serine/threonine kinase 25, and is thought to function in a signaling pathway essential for vascular developent. Mutations in this gene are one cause of cerebral cavernous malformations, which are vascular malformations that cause seizures and cerebral hemorrhages. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198707	 This gene encodes a protein with 13 putative coiled-coil domains, a region with homology to SMC chromosome segregation ATPases, six KID motifs, three tropomyosin homology domains and an ATP/GTP binding site motif A. The protein is localized to the centrosome and cilia and has sites for N-glycosylation, tyrosine sulfation, phosphorylation, N-myristoylation, and amidation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Joubert syndrome and nephronophthisis and the presence of antibodies against this protein is associated with several forms of cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000072506	 This gene encodes 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase type II, a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase superfamily. The gene product is a mitochondrial protein that catalyzes the oxidation of a wide variety of fatty acids, alcohols, and steroids. The protein has been implicated in the development of Alzheimer's disease, and mutations in the gene are the cause of 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (MHBD). Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified, but the full-length nature of only two transcript variants has been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169344	 This gene encodes uromodulin, the most abundant protein in normal urine. Its excretion in urine follows proteolytic cleavage of the ectodomain of its glycosyl phosphatidylinosital-anchored counterpart that is situated on the luminal cell surface of the loop of Henle. Uromodulin may act as a constitutive inhibitor of calcium crystallization in renal fluids. Excretion of uromodulin in urine may provide defense against urinary tract infections caused by uropathogenic bacteria. Defects in this gene are associated with the autosomal dominant renal disorders medullary cystic kidney disease-2 (MCKD2) and familial juvenile hyperuricemic nephropathy (FJHN). These disorders are characterized by juvenile onset of hyperuricemia, gout, and progressive renal failure. While several transcript variants may exist for this gene, the full-length natures of only two have been described to date. These two represent the major variants of this gene and encode the same isoform. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183765	 In response to DNA damage and replication blocks, cell cycle progression is halted through the control of critical cell cycle regulators. The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle checkpoint regulator and putative tumor suppressor. It contains a forkhead-associated protein interaction domain essential for activation in response to DNA damage and is rapidly phosphorylated in response to replication blocks and DNA damage. When activated, the encoded protein is known to inhibit CDC25C phosphatase, preventing entry into mitosis, and has been shown to stabilize the tumor suppressor protein p53, leading to cell cycle arrest in G1. In addition, this protein interacts with and phosphorylates BRCA1, allowing BRCA1 to restore survival after DNA damage. Mutations in this gene have been linked with Li-Fraumeni syndrome, a highly penetrant familial cancer phenotype usually associated with inherited mutations in TP53. Also, mutations in this gene are thought to confer a predisposition to sarcomas, breast cancer, and brain tumors. This nuclear protein is a member of the CDS1 subfamily of serine/threonine protein kinases. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000130948	 This isoform of 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase is expressed predominantly in the testis and catalyzes the conversion of androstenedione to testosterone.  It preferentially uses NADP as cofactor.  Deficiency can result in male pseudohermaphroditism with gynecomastia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000155980	 This gene encodes a member of the kinesin family of proteins. Members of this family are part of a multisubunit complex that functions as a microtubule motor in intracellular organelle transport. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia 10. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000185950	 This gene encodes the insulin receptor substrate 2, a cytoplasmic signaling molecule that mediates effects of insulin, insulin-like growth factor 1, and other cytokines by acting as a molecular adaptor between diverse receptor tyrosine kinases and downstream effectors. The product of this gene is phosphorylated by the insulin receptor tyrosine kinase upon receptor stimulation, as well as by an interleukin 4 receptor-associated kinase in response to IL4 treatment. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000069011	 This gene encodes a member of the RIEG/PITX homeobox family, which is in the bicoid class of homeodomain proteins. Members of this family are involved in organ development and left-right asymmetry. This protein acts as a transcriptional regulator involved in basal and hormone-regulated activity of prolactin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000154415	 The glycogen-associated form of protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) derived from skeletal muscle is a heterodimer composed of a 37-kD catalytic subunit and a 124-kD targeting and regulatory subunit. This gene encodes the regulatory subunit which binds to muscle glycogen with high affinity, thereby enhancing dephosphorylation of glycogen-bound substrates for PP1 such as glycogen synthase and glycogen phosphorylase kinase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137713	 This gene encodes a constant regulatory subunit of protein phosphatase 2. Protein phosphatase 2 is one of the four major Ser/Thr phosphatases, and it is implicated in the negative control of cell growth and division. It consists of a common heteromeric core enzyme, which is composed of a catalytic subunit and a constant regulatory subunit, that associates with a variety of regulatory subunits. The constant regulatory subunit A serves as a scaffolding molecule to coordinate the assembly of the catalytic subunit and a variable regulatory B subunit. This gene encodes a beta isoform of the constant regulatory subunit A. Mutations in this gene have been associated with some lung and colon cancers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000160339	 The product of this gene belongs to the ficolin family of proteins. This family is characterized by the presence of a leader peptide, a short N-terminal segment, followed by a collagen-like region, and a C-terminal fibrinogen-like domain. This gene is predominantly expressed in the liver, and has been shown to have carbohydrate binding and opsonic activities. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159640	 This gene encodes an enzyme involved in catalyzing the conversion of angiotensin I into a physiologically active peptide angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a potent vasopressor and aldosterone-stimulating peptide that controls blood pressure and fluid-electrolyte balance. This enzyme plays a key role in the renin-angiotensin system. Many studies have associated the presence or absence of a 287 bp Alu repeat element in this gene with the levels of circulating enzyme or cardiovascular pathophysiologies. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified, and two most abundant spliced variants encode the somatic form and the testicular form, respectively, that are equally active. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000105357	 This gene encodes a member of the myosin superfamily. The protein represents a conventional non-muscle myosin; it should not be confused with the unconventional myosin-14 (MYO14). Myosins are actin-dependent motor proteins with diverse functions including regulation of cytokinesis, cell motility, and cell polarity. Mutations in this gene result in one form of autosomal dominant hearing impairment. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000071575	 This gene encodes one of three members of the Tribbles family. The Tribbles members share a Trb domain, which is homologous to protein serine-threonine kinases, but lacks the active site lysine and probably lacks a catalytic function. The Tribbles proteins interact and modulate the activity of signal transduction pathways in a number of physiological and pathological processes. This Tribbles member induces apoptosis of cells mainly of the hematopoietic origin. It has been identified as a protein up-regulated by inflammatory stimuli in myeloid (THP-1) cells, and also as an oncogene that inactivates the transcription factor C/EBPalpha (CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha) and causes acute myelogenous leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000117322	 This gene encodes a membrane protein, which functions as a receptor for Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) binding on B and T lymphocytes. Genetic variations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus type 9 (SLEB9). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000136244	 This gene encodes a cytokine that functions in inflammation and the maturation of B cells. In addition, the encoded protein has been shown to be an endogenous pyrogen capable of inducing fever in people with autoimmune diseases or infections. The protein is primarily produced at sites of acute and chronic inflammation, where it is secreted into the serum and induces a transcriptional inflammatory response through interleukin 6 receptor, alpha. The functioning of this gene is implicated in a wide variety of inflammation-associated disease states, including suspectibility to diabetes mellitus and systemic juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000205336	 This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family. The protein contains 7 transmembrane domains and a mucin-like domain in the N-terminal region. The gene is implicated in the regulation of brain cortical patterning. The protein binds specifically to transglutaminase 2 in the extracellular space. Expression of this gene is downregulated in melanoma cell lines, and overexpression of this gene can suppress tumor growth and metastasis. Mutations in this gene result in bilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000136936	 This gene encodes a zinc finger protein involved in DNA excision repair. The encoded protein is part of the NER (nucleotide excision repair) complext which is responsible for repair of UV radiation-induced photoproducts and DNA adducts induced by chemical carcinogens. Mutations in this gene are associated with xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group A. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000075213	 This gene is a member of the semaphorin family and encodes a protein with an Ig-like C2-type (immunoglobulin-like) domain, a PSI domain and a Sema domain. This secreted protein can function as either a chemorepulsive agent, inhibiting axonal outgrowth, or as a chemoattractive agent, stimulating the growth of apical dendrites. In both cases, the protein is vital for normal neuronal pattern development. Increased expression of this protein is associated with schizophrenia and is seen in a variety of human tumor cell lines. Also, aberrant release of this protein is associated with the progression of Alzheimer's disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000117298	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in proteolytic processing of endothelin precursors to biologically active peptides. Mutations in this gene are associated with Hirschsprung disease, cardiac defects and autonomic dysfunction. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000149305	 The product of this gene belongs to the ligand-gated ion channel receptor superfamily. This gene encodes subunit B of the type 3 receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin), a biogenic hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter, a hormone, and a mitogen. This receptor causes fast, depolarizing responses in neurons after activation. It is not functional as a homomeric complex, but a pentaheteromeric complex with subunit A (HTR3A) displays the full functional features of this receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000115607	 The protein encoded by this gene is an accessory subunit of the heterodimeric receptor for IL18. This protein enhances the IL18 binding activity of IL18R1 (IL1RRP), a ligand binding subunit of IL18 receptor. The coexpression of IL18R1 and this protein is required for the activation of NF-kappaB and MAPK8 (JNK) in response to IL18. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000158850	 This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT) genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfer galactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Glc, and Xyl. Each beta4GalT has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of different glycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, they have an N-terminal hydrophobic signal sequence that directs the protein to the Golgi apparatus and which then remains uncleaved to function as a transmembrane anchor. By sequence similarity, the beta4GalTs form four groups: beta4GalT1 and beta4GalT2, beta4GalT3 and beta4GalT4, beta4GalT5 and beta4GalT6, and beta4GalT7. This gene encodes an enzyme that may be mainly involved in the synthesis of the first N-acetyllactosamine unit of poly-N-acetyllactosamine chains. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000187391	 The protein encoded by this gene interacts with atrophin-1. Atrophin-1 contains a polyglutamine repeat, expansion of which is responsible for dentatorubral and pallidoluysian atrophy. This encoded protein is characterized by two WW domains, a guanylate kinase-like domain, and multiple PDZ domains. It has structural similarity to the membrane-associated guanylate kinase homologue (MAGUK) family. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000064692	 This gene encodes a protein containing several protein-protein interaction domains, including ankyrin-like repeats, a coiled-coil domain, and an ATP/GTP-binding motif. The encoded protein interacts with alpha-synuclein in neuronal tissue and may play a role in the formation of cytoplasmic inclusions and neurodegeneration. A mutation in this gene has been associated with Parkinson's disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of only two have been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000133116	 This gene encodes a type-I membrane protein that is related to beta-glucosidases. Reduced production of this protein has been observed in patients with chronic renal failure (CRF), and this may be one of the factors underlying the degenerative processes (e.g., arteriosclerosis, osteoporosis, and skin atrophy) seen in CRF. Also, mutations within this protein have been associated with ageing and bone loss. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000151208	 This gene encodes a member of the family of discs large (DLG) homologs, a subset of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) superfamily. The MAGUK proteins are composed of a catalytically inactive guanylate kinase domain, in addition to PDZ and SH3 domains, and are thought to function as scaffolding molecules at sites of cell-cell contact. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the plasma membrane and cytoplasm, and interacts with components of adherens junctions and the cytoskeleton. It is proposed to function in the transmission of extracellular signals to the cytoskeleton and in the maintenance of epithelial cell structure. Alternative splice variants have been described but their biological nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000149177	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes, including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP possesses an extracellular region containing five fibronectin type III repeats, a single transmembrane region, and a single intracytoplasmic catalytic domain, and thus represents a receptor-type PTP. This protein is present in all hematopoietic lineages, and was shown to negatively regulate T cell receptor signaling possibly through interfering with the phosphorylation of Phospholipase C Gamma 1 and Linker for Activation of T Cells. This protein can also dephosphorylate the PDGF beta receptor, and may be involved in UV-induced signal transduction. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000189241	 The protein encoded by this gene is found in the nucleolus and is similar to that of a family of genes on the Y-chromosome. This gene is intronless. Defects in this gene are a cause of sudden infant death with dysgenesis of the testes syndrome (SIDDT). [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000164761	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This protein is an osteoblast-secreted decoy receptor that functions as a negative regulator of bone resorption. This protein specifically binds to its ligand, osteoprotegerin ligand, both of which are key extracellular regulators of osteoclast development. Studies of the mouse counterpart also suggest that this protein and its ligand play a role in lymph-node organogenesis and vascular calcification. Alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been reported, but their full length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116711	 This gene encodes a member of the cytosolic phospholipase A2 group IV family. The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of membrane phospholipids to release arachidonic acid which is subsequently metabolized into eicosanoids. Eicosanoids, including prostaglandins and leukotrienes, are lipid-based cellular hormones that regulate hemodynamics, inflammatory responses, and other intracellular pathways. The hydrolysis reaction also produces lysophospholipids that are converted into platelet-activating factor. The enzyme is activated by increased intracellular Ca(2+) levels and phosphorylation, resulting in its translocation from the cytosol and nucleus to perinuclear membrane vesicles. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000042980	 This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The protein encoded by this gene is a lymphocyte-expressed ADAM protein. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants. The shorter version encodes a secreted isoform, while the longer version encodes a transmembrane isoform. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120907	 Alpha-1-adrenergic receptors (alpha-1-ARs) are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. They activate mitogenic responses and regulate growth and proliferation of many cells. There are 3 alpha-1-AR subtypes: alpha-1A, -1B and -1D, all of which signal through the Gq/11 family of G-proteins and different subtypes show different patterns of activation. This gene encodes alpha-1A-adrenergic receptor. Alternative splicing of this gene generates four transcript variants, which encode four different isoforms with distinct C-termini but having similar ligand binding properties. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000154229	 Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases that can be activated by calcium and the second messenger diacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways. PKC family members also serve as major receptors for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promoters. Each member of the PKC family has a specific expression profile and is believed to play a distinct role in cells. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the PKC family members. This kinase has been reported to play roles in many different cellular processes, such as cell adhesion, cell transformation, cell cycle checkpoint, and cell volume control. Knockout studies in mice suggest that this kinase may be a fundamental regulator of cardiac contractility and Ca(2+) handling in myocytes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000070814	 This gene encodes a nucleolar protein with a LIS1 homology domain. The protein is involved in ribosomal DNA gene transcription through its interaction with upstream binding factor (UBF). Mutations in this gene have been associated with Treacher Collins syndrome, a disorder which includes abnormal craniofacial development. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000172936	 This gene encodes a cytosolic adapter protein that plays a central role in the innate and adaptive immune response. This protein functions as an essential signal transducer in the interleukin-1 and Toll-like receptor signaling pathways. These pathways regulate that activation of numerous proinflammatory genes. The encoded protein consists of an N-terminal death domain and a C-terminal Toll-interleukin1 receptor domain. Patients with defects in this gene have an increased susceptibility to pyogenic bacterial infections. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000079739	 The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of phosphoglucomutase (PGM) and belongs to the phosphohexose mutase family. There are several PGM isozymes, which are encoded by different genes and catalyze the transfer of phosphate between the 1 and 6 positions of glucose. In most cell types, this PGM isozyme is predominant, representing about 90% of total PGM activity. In red cells, PGM2 is a major isozyme. This gene is highly polymorphic. Mutations in this gene cause glycogen storage disease type 14. Alternativley spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000084674	 This gene product is the main apolipoprotein of chylomicrons and low density lipoproteins. It occurs in plasma as two main isoforms, apoB-48 and apoB-100: the former is synthesized exclusively in the gut and the latter in the liver. The intestinal and the hepatic forms of apoB are encoded by a single gene from a single, very long mRNA. The two isoforms share a common N-terminal sequence. The shorter apoB-48 protein is produced after RNA editing of the apoB-100 transcript at residue 2180 (CAA->UAA), resulting in the creation of a stop codon, and early translation termination. Mutations in this gene or its regulatory region cause hypobetalipoproteinemia, normotriglyceridemic hypobetalipoproteinemia, and hypercholesterolemia due to ligand-defective apoB, diseases affecting plasma cholesterol and apoB levels. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106992	 Adenylate kinase is an enzyme involved in regulating the adenine nucleotide composition within a cell by catalyzing the reversible transfer of phosphate group among adinine nucleotides. Three isozymes of adenylate kinase have been identified in vertebrates, adenylate isozyme 1 (AK1), 2 (AK2) and 3 (AK3). AK1 is found in the cytosol of skeletal muscle, brain and erythrocytes, whereas AK2 and AK3 are found in the mitochondria of other tissues including liver and heart. AK1 was identified because of its association with a rare genetic disorder causing nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia where a mutation in the AK1 gene was found to reduce the catalytic activity of the enzyme. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114739	 Activins are dimeric growth and differentiation factors which belong to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of structurally related signaling proteins. Activins signal through a heteromeric complex of receptor serine kinases which include at least two type I (I and IB) and two type II (II and IIB) receptors. These receptors are all transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular domain with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with predicted serine/threonine specificity. Type I receptors are essential for signaling; and type II receptors are required for binding ligands and for expression of type I receptors. Type I and II receptors form a stable complex after ligand binding, resulting in phosphorylation of type I receptors by type II receptors. Type II receptors are considered to be constitutively active kinases. This gene encodes activin A type IIB receptor, which displays a 3- to 4-fold higher affinity for the ligand than activin A type II receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167972	 The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.  ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes.  ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).  This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily.  Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes.  The full transporter encoded by this gene may be involved in development of resistance to xenobiotics and engulfment during programmed cell death. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173566	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Nudix hydrolase family. Nudix hydrolases eliminate potentially toxic nucleotide metabolites from the cell and regulate the concentrations and availability of many different nucleotide substrates, cofactors, and signaling molecules. This protein contains a Nudix hydrolase domain and hydrolyzes oxidized forms of guanosine and deoxyguanosine diphosphates. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000138029	 This gene encodes the beta subunit of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein, which catalyzes the last three steps of mitochondrial beta-oxidation of long chain fatty acids. The mitochondrial membrane-bound heterocomplex is composed of four alpha and four beta subunits, with the beta subunit catalyzing the 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase activity. Mutations in this gene result in trifunctional protein deficiency. The encoded protein can also bind RNA and decreases the stability of some mRNAs. The genes of the alpha and beta subunits of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein are located adjacent to each other in the human genome in a head-to-head orientation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found; however, their full-length nature is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000051523	 Cytochrome b is comprised of a light chain (alpha) and a heavy chain (beta). This gene encodes the light, alpha subunit which has been proposed as a primary component of the microbicidal oxidase system of phagocytes. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), that is characterized by the failure of activated phagocytes to generate superoxide, which is important for the microbicidal activity of these cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000088305	 CpG methylation is an epigenetic modification that is important for embryonic development, imprinting, and X-chromosome inactivation. Studies in mice have demonstrated that DNA methylation is required for mammalian development. This gene encodes a DNA methyltransferase which is thought to function in de novo methylation, rather than maintenance methylation. The protein localizes primarily to the nucleus and its expression is developmentally regulated. Mutations in this gene cause the immunodeficiency-centromeric instability-facial anomalies (ICF) syndrome. Eight alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. The full length sequences of variants 4 and 5 have not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000120054	 Carboxypeptidase N is a plasma metallo-protease that cleaves basic amino acids from the C terminal of peptides and proteins. The enzyme is important in the regulation of peptides like kinins and anaphylatoxins, and has also been known as kininase-1 and anaphylatoxin inactivator. This enzyme is a tetramer comprised of two identical regulatory subunits and two identical catalytic subunits; this gene encodes the catalytic subunit. Mutations in this gene can be associated with angioedema or chronic urticaria resulting from carboxypeptidase N deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000083799	 This gene is encodes a cytoplasmic protein with three cytoskeletal-associated protein-glycine-conserved (CAP-GLY) domains that functions as a deubiquitinating enzyme. Mutations in this gene have been associated with cylindromatosis, multiple familial trichoepithelioma, and Brooke-Spiegler syndrome. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000176746	 This gene is a member of the MAGEB gene family. The members of this family have their entire coding sequences located in the last exon, and the encoded proteins show 50 to 68% sequence identity to each other. The promoters and first exons of the MAGEB genes show considerable variability, suggesting that the existence of this gene family enables the same function to be expressed under different transcriptional controls. This gene is expressed in testis, and in a significant fraction of tumors of various histological types. The MAGEB genes are clustered on chromosome Xp22-p21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147381	 This gene is a member of the MAGEA gene family. The members of this family encode proteins with 50 to 80% sequence identity to each other. The promoters and first exons of the MAGEA genes show considerable variability, suggesting that the existence of this gene family enables the same function to be expressed under different transcriptional controls. The MAGEA genes are clustered at chromosomal location Xq28. They have been implicated in some hereditary disorders, such as dyskeratosis congenita. At least four variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000221867	 This gene is a member of the MAGEA gene family. The members of this family encode proteins with 50 to 80% sequence identity to each other. The promoters and first exons of the MAGEA genes show considerable variability, suggesting that the existence of this gene family enables the same function to be expressed under different transcriptional controls. The MAGEA genes are clustered at chromosomal location Xq28. They have been implicated in some hereditary disorders, such as dyskeratosis congenita. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198681	 This gene is a member of the MAGEA gene family. The members of this family encode proteins with 50 to 80% sequence identity to each other. The promoters and first exons of the MAGEA genes show considerable variability, suggesting that the existence of this gene family enables the same function to be expressed under different transcriptional controls. The MAGEA genes are clustered at chromosomal location Xq28. They have been implicated in some hereditary disorders, such as dyskeratosis congenita. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133105	 This gene encodes a member of the GPCR (G protein-coupled, 7-transmembrane receptor) family. Mutations in this gene are associated with cryptorchidism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000102313	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the interalpha trypsin inhibitor heavy chain (ITIH) family. Interalpha trypsin inhibitor (ITI) is composed of two heavy chains (containing VWA domain) and one light chain. The light chain confers the protease-inhibitor function, while the heavy chains are involved in mediating protein-protein interactions with the components of the extracellular matrix. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000104889	 The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the heterotrimeric type II ribonuclease H enzyme (RNAseH2). RNAseH2 is the major source of ribonuclease H activity in mammalian cells and endonucleolytically cleaves ribonucleotides. It is predicted to remove Okazaki fragment RNA primers during lagging strand DNA synthesis and to excise single ribonucleotides from DNA-DNA duplexes. Mutations in this gene cause Aicardi-Goutieres Syndrome (AGS), a an autosomal recessive neurological disorder characterized by progressive microcephaly and psychomotor retardation, intracranial calcifications, elevated levels of interferon-alpha and white blood cells in the cerebrospinal fluid.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000186812	 This gene encodes a protein with a N-terminal SCAN domain, and the longer isoform contains nine C2H2-type zinc finger repeats in the C-terminal domain. The protein localizes to centromeres during interphase and early prophase, and different isoforms can repress or activate transcription in transfection studies. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Additional variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000128881	 This gene encodes a serine-threonine kinase that putatively phosphorylates tau and tubulin proteins. Mutations in this gene cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 11 (SCA11); a neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive ataxia and atrophy of the cerebellum and brainstem. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000187601	 This gene is thought to be involved in apoptosis. Multiple polyadenylation sites have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198211	 This gene encodes a class III member of the beta tubulin protein family. Beta tubulins are one of two core protein families (alpha and beta tubulins) that heterodimerize and assemble to form microtubules. This protein is primarily expressed in neurons and may be involved in neurogenesis and axon guidance and maintenance. Mutations in this gene are the cause of congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles type 3. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000126778	 The protein encoded by this gene is a homeobox protein that is similar to the Drosophila 'sine oculis' gene product. This gene is found in a cluster of related genes on chromosome 14 and is thought to be involved in limb development. Defects in this gene are a cause of autosomal dominant deafness type 23 (DFNA23) and branchiootic syndrome type 3 (BOS3). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159459	 The N-end rule pathway is one proteolytic pathway of the ubiquitin system. The recognition component of this pathway, encoded by this gene, binds to a destabilizing N-terminal residue of a substrate protein and participates in the formation of a substrate-linked multiubiquitin chain. This leads to the eventual degradation of the substrate protein. The protein described in this record has a RING-type zinc finger and a UBR-type zinc finger. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Johanson-Blizzard syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147475	 This gene encodes a member of the SPFH domain-containing family of lipid raft-associated proteins. The encoded protein is localized to lipid rafts of the endoplasmic reticulum and plays a critical role in inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) signaling by mediating ER-associated degradation of activated IP3 receptors. Mutations in this gene are a cause of spastic paraplegia-18 (SPG18). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000198670	 The protein encoded by this gene is a serine proteinase that inhibits the activity of tissue-type plasminogen activator I. The encoded protein constitutes a substantial portion of lipoprotein(a) and is proteolytically cleaved, resulting in fragments that attach to atherosclerotic lesions and promote thrombogenesis. Elevated plasma levels of this protein are linked to atherosclerosis. Depending on the individual, the encoded protein contains 2-43 copies of kringle-type domains. The allele represented here contains 15 copies of the kringle-type repeats and corresponds to that found in the reference genome sequence. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000128908	 The protein encoded by this gene represents the catalytic ATPase subunit of the INO80 chromatin remodeling complex. This complex binds DNA and is recruited by YY1 to activate certain genes.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000198689	 This gene encodes a sodium-hydrogen exchanger that is amember of the solute carrier family 9. The encoded protein localizes to early and recycling endosomes and may be involved in regulating endosomal pH and volume. Defects in this gene are associated with X-linked syndromic mental retardation, Christianson type. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000101019	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that is structurally similar to the mouse basic fibroblast growth factor repressed ZIC-binding protein. In mouse this protein may be involved in fibroblast growth factor regulated growth control. In humans, polymorphisms in this gene are associated with variation in human height and osteoarthritis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000177311	 The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcriptional activator that binds methylated DNA. The encoded protein can form homodimers or heterodimers through the zinc finger domains. In mouse, inhibition of this protein has been associated with apoptosis in some cell types. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000187266	 This gene encodes the erythropoietin receptor which is a member of the cytokine receptor family. Upon erythropoietin binding, this receptor activates Jak2 tyrosine kinase which activates different intracellular pathways including: Ras/MAP kinase, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and STAT transcription factors. The stimulated erythropoietin receptor appears to have a role in erythroid cell survival. Defects in the erythropoietin receptor may produce erythroleukemia and familial erythrocytosis. Dysregulation of this gene may affect the growth of certain tumors. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000123572	 The mouse ortholog of this gene encodes a protein kinase required for JNK activation. The encoded protein may be involved in the induction of actin polymerization in late embryogenesis.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000168066	 This gene encodes a nuclear pre-mRNA splicing factor. The encoded protein specifically recognizes the intron branch point sequence and is required for the early stages of spliceosome assembly. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000123130	 The protein encoded by this gene is a mitochondrial acyl-CoA thioesterase of unknown function. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000207695	 microRNAs (miRNAs) are short (20-24 nt) non-coding RNAs that are involved in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression in multicellular organisms by affecting both the stability and translation of mRNAs. miRNAs are transcribed by RNA polymerase II as part of capped and polyadenylated primary transcripts (pri-miRNAs) that can be either protein-coding or non-coding. The primary transcript is cleaved by the Drosha ribonuclease III enzyme to produce an approximately 70-nt stem-loop precursor miRNA (pre-miRNA), which is further cleaved by the cytoplasmic Dicer ribonuclease to generate the mature miRNA and antisense miRNA star (miRNA*) products. The mature miRNA is incorporated into a RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), which recognizes target mRNAs through imperfect base pairing with the miRNA and most commonly results in translational inhibition or destabilization of the target mRNA. The RefSeq represents the predicted microRNA stem-loop. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000134762	 The protein encoded by this gene is a calcium-dependent glycoprotein that is a member of the desmocollin subfamily of the cadherin superfamily. These desmosomal family members, along with the desmogleins, are found primarily in epithelial cells where they constitute the adhesive proteins of the desmosome cell-cell junction and are required for cell adhesion and desmosome formation. The desmosomal family members are arranged in two clusters on chromosome 18, occupying less than 650 kb combined. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101605	 The giant protein titin, together with its associated proteins, interconnects the major structure of sarcomeres, the M bands and Z discs. The C-terminal end of the titin string extends into the M line, where it binds tightly to M-band constituents of apparent molecular masses of 190 kD (myomesin 1) and 165 kD (myomesin 2). This protein, myomesin 1, like myomesin 2, titin, and other myofibrillar proteins contains structural modules with strong homology to either fibronectin type III (motif I) or immunoglobulin C2 (motif II) domains. Myomesin 1 and myomesin 2 each have a unique N-terminal region followed by 12 modules of motif I or motif II, in the arrangement II-II-I-I-I-I-I-II-II-II-II-II. The two proteins share 50% sequence identity in this repeat-containing region. The head structure formed by these 2 proteins on one end of the titin string extends into the center of the M band. The integrating structure of the sarcomere arises from muscle-specific members of the superfamily of immunoglobulin-like proteins. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119718	 This gene encodes the beta subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor-2B (EIF2B). EIF2B is involved in protein synthesis and exchanges GDP and GTP for its activation and deactivation. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000125741	 The mouse ortholog of this protein co-purifies with the mitochondrial inner membrane. Mutations in this gene have been shown to result in 3-methylglutaconic aciduria type III and autosomal dominant optic atrophy and cataract. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000111199	 This gene encodes a member of the OSM9-like transient receptor potential channel (OTRPC) subfamily in the transient receptor potential (TRP) superfamily of ion channels. The encoded protein is a Ca2+-permeable, nonselective cation channel that is thought to be involved in the regulation of systemic osmotic pressure. Mutations in this gene are the cause of spondylometaphyseal and metatropic dysplasia and hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type IIC. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000173218	 This gene encodes a member of the tretraspanin family. The encoded protein may be involved in mediating intestinal trefoil factor induced wound healing in the intestinal mucosa. Mutations in this gene are associated with neural tube defects. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000105369	 The B lymphocyte antigen receptor is a multimeric complex that includes the antigen-specific component, surface immunoglobulin (Ig). Surface Ig non-covalently associates with two other proteins, Ig-alpha and Ig-beta, which are necessary for expression and function of the B-cell antigen receptor. This gene encodes the Ig-alpha protein of the B-cell antigen component. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113302	 This gene encodes a subunit of interleukin 12, a cytokine that acts on T and natural killer cells, and has a broad array of biological activities. Interleukin 12 is a disulfide-linked heterodimer composed of the 40 kD cytokine receptor like subunit encoded by this gene, and a 35 kD subunit encoded by IL12A. This cytokine is expressed by activated macrophages that serve as an essential inducer of Th1 cells development. This cytokine has been found to be important for sustaining a sufficient number of memory/effector Th1 cells to mediate long-term protection to an intracellular pathogen. Overexpression of this gene was observed in the central nervous system of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), suggesting a role of this cytokine in the pathogenesis of the disease. The promoter polymorphism of this gene has been reported to be associated with the severity of atopic and non-atopic asthma in children. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163064	 Homeobox-containing genes are thought to have a role in controlling development. In Drosophila, the 'engrailed' (en) gene plays an important role during development in segmentation, where it is required for the formation of posterior compartments. Different mutations in the mouse homologs, En1 and En2, produced different developmental defects that frequently are lethal. The human engrailed homologs 1 and 2 encode homeodomain-containing proteins and have been implicated in the control of pattern formation during development of the central nervous system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126088	 This gene encodes an enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway. This enzyme is responsible for catalyzing the conversion of uroporphyrinogen to coproporphyrinogen through the removal of four carboxymethyl side chains. Mutations and deficiency in this enzyme are known to cause familial porphyria cutanea tarda and hepatoerythropoetic porphyria.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000084754	 This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein, which catalyzes the last three steps of mitochondrial beta-oxidation of long chain fatty acids. The mitochondrial membrane-bound heterocomplex is composed of four alpha and four beta subunits, with the alpha subunit catalyzing the 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase and enoyl-CoA hydratase activities. Mutations in this gene result in trifunctional protein deficiency or LCHAD deficiency. The genes of the alpha and beta subunits of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein are located adjacent to each other in the human genome in a head-to-head orientation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164093	 This gene encodes a member of the RIEG/PITX homeobox family, which is in the bicoid class of homeodomain proteins. The encoded protein acts as a transcription factor and regulates procollagen lysyl hydroxylase gene expression. This protein plays a role in the terminal differentiation of somatotroph and lactotroph cell phenotypes, is involved in the development of the eye, tooth and abdominal organs, and acts as a transcriptional regulator involved in basal and hormone-regulated activity of prolactin. Mutations in this gene are associated with Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome, iridogoniodysgenesis syndrome, and sporadic cases of Peters anomaly. A similar protein in other vertebrates is involved in the determination of left-right asymmetry during development. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164778	 Homeobox-containing genes are thought to have a role in controlling development. In Drosophila, the 'engrailed' (en) gene plays an important role during development in segmentation, where it is required for the formation of posterior compartments. Different mutations in the mouse homologs, En1 and En2, produced different developmental defects that frequently are lethal. The human engrailed homologs 1 and 2 encode homeodomain-containing proteins and have been implicated in the control of pattern formation during development of the central nervous system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123240	 This gene encodes the coiled-coil containing protein optineurin. Optineurin may play a role in normal-tension glaucoma and adult-onset primary open angle glaucoma. Optineurin interacts with adenovirus E3-14.7K protein and may utilize tumor necrosis factor-alpha or Fas-ligand pathways to mediate apoptosis, inflammation or vasoconstriction. Optineurin may also function in cellular morphogenesis and membrane trafficking, vesicle trafficking, and transcription activation through its interactions with the RAB8, huntingtin, and transcription factor IIIA proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000139679	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors, that are preferentially activated by adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This gene aligns with an internal intron of the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene in the reverse orientation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000162399	 This gene encodes an essential beta subunit for CLC chloride channels. These heteromeric channels localize to basolateral membranes of renal tubules and of potassium-secreting epithelia of the inner ear. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Bartter syndrome with sensorineural deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114854	 Troponin is a central regulatory protein of striated muscle contraction, and together with tropomyosin, is located on the actin filament. Troponin consists of 3 subunits: TnI, which is the inhibitor of actomyosin ATPase; TnT, which contains the binding site for tropomyosin; and TnC, the protein encoded by this gene. The binding of calcium to TnC abolishes the inhibitory action of TnI, thus allowing the interaction of actin with myosin, the hydrolysis of ATP, and the generation of tension. Mutations in this gene are associated with cardiomyopathy dilated type 1Z. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000197753	 This gene is a member of the lipoma HMGIC fusion partner (LHFP) gene family, which is a subset of the superfamily of tetraspan transmembrane protein encoding genes. Mutations in this gene result in deafness in humans, and a mutation in a similar gene in mice results in deafness and vestibular dysfunction with severe degeneration of the organ of Corti. It is proposed to function in hair bundle morphogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000091831	 This gene encodes an estrogen receptor, a ligand-activated transcription factor composed of several domains important for hormone binding, DNA binding, and activation of transcription. The protein localizes to the nucleus where it may form a homodimer or a heterodimer with estrogen receptor 2. Estrogen and its receptors are essential for sexual development and reproductive function, but also play a role in other tissues such as bone. Estrogen receptors are also involved in pathological processes including breast cancer, endometrial cancer, and osteoporosis. Alternative splicing results in several transcript variants, which differ in their 5' UTRs and use different promoters. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000174083	 Phosphoinositide 3-kinase gamma is a lipid kinase that produces the lipid second messenger phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate. The kinase is composed of a catalytic subunit and one of several regulatory subunits, and is chiefly activated by G protein-coupled receptors. This gene encodes a regulatory subunit, and is distantly related to the phosphoinositide-3-kinase, regulatory subunit 5 gene which is located adjacent to this gene on chromosome 7. The orthologous protein in the mouse binds to both the catalytic subunit and to G(beta/gamma), and mediates activation of the kinase subunit downstream of G protein-coupled receptors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133619	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. This record has been curated by NCBI staff in collaboration with Andre Blavier. The reference sequence was derived from AC004897.1. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000167768	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. The type II cytokeratins consist of basic or neutral proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains coexpressed during differentiation of simple and stratified epithelial tissues. This type II cytokeratin is specifically expressed in the spinous and granular layers of the epidermis with family member KRT10 and mutations in these genes have been associated with bullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma. The type II cytokeratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q12-q13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000049319	 This gene encodes a microsomal protein expressed at high levels in androgen-sensitive tissues such as the prostate. The encoded protein is active at acidic pH and is sensitive to the 4-azasteroid inhibitor finasteride. Deficiencies in this gene can result in male pseudohermaphroditism, specifically pseudovaginal perineoscrotal hypospadias (PPSH). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000021762	 This gene encodes a member of the oxysterol-binding protein (OSBP) family, a group of intracellular lipid receptors that play a key role in the maintenance of cholesterol balance in the body. Most members contain an N-terminal pleckstrin homology domain and a highly conserved C-terminal OSBP-like sterol-binding domain. This gene has been shown to be imprinted, with preferential expression from the maternal allele only in placenta. Transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000130962	 This gene encodes a vitamin K-dependent, gamma-carboxyglutamic acid (Gla)-containing, single-pass transmembrane protein. This protein contains a Gla domain at the N-terminus, preceded by a propeptide sequence required for post-translational gamma-carboxylation of specific glutamic acid residues by a vitamin K-dependent gamma-carboxylase. The C-terminus is proline-rich containing PPXY and PXXP motifs found in a variety of signaling and cytoskeletal proteins. This gene is highly expressed in the spinal cord. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000186832	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. The keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into cytokeratins and hair keratins. Most of the type I cytokeratins consist of acidic proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains and are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21. This keratin has been coexpressed with keratin 14 in a number of epithelial tissues, including esophagus, tongue, and hair follicles. Mutations in this gene are associated with type 1 pachyonychia congenita, non-epidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma and unilateral palmoplantar verrucous nevus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116721	 This gene is a member of the PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma) gene family which is expressed in many cancers but may function in reproductive tissues during development. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000101892	 This gene has been found in all vertebrate genomes sequenced to date. However, this gene has undergone a change in function in placental mammals compared to other species. Specifically, in fish, avian, and amphibian species, this gene encodes plasma membrane-bound beta-subunits of Na,K-ATPase. In placental mammals, the encoded protein interacts with the nuclear transcriptional coregulator SKIP and may be involved in the regulation of TGF-beta signaling. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000096433	 This gene encodes a receptor for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, a second messenger that mediates the release of intracellular calcium. The receptor contains a calcium channel at the C-terminus and the ligand-binding site at the N-terminus. Knockout studies in mice suggest that type 2 and type 3 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors play a key role in exocrine secretion underlying energy metabolism and growth. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000074621	 This gene encodes a member of the potassium-dependent sodium/calcium exchanger protein family. The encoded protein plays an important role in sodium/calcium exchange in retinal rod and cone photoreceptors by mediating the extrusion of one calcium ion and one potassium ion in exchange for four sodium ions. Mutations in this gene may play a role in congenital stationary night blindness. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000143297	 This gene encodes a member of the immunoglobulin receptor superfamily and the Fc-receptor like family. This gene and several other Fc receptor-like gene members are clustered on the long arm of chromosome 1. The encoded protein is a single-pass type I membrane protein and contains 8 immunoglobulin-like C2-type domains. This gene is implicated in B cell development and lymphomagenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000176783	 This gene encodes a protein that contains a RUN domain and a FYVE-type zinc finger domain. The encoded protein binds to phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate (PI3P) and plays a role in early endosomal trafficking, tethering and fusion through interactions with small GTPases including Rab4, Rab5 and Rab14. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000112782	 This gene encodes a member of the chloride intracellular channel (CLIC) family of chloride ion channels. The encoded protein associates with actin-based cytoskeletal structures and may play a role in multiple processes including hair cell stereocilia formation, myoblast proliferation and glomerular podocyte and endothelial cell maintenance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000050030	 An inversion on the X chromosome which disrupts this gene and a G-protein coupled purinergic receptor gene located in the pseudoautosomal region of the X chromosome has been linked to X linked mental retardation.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000165355	 This locus represents an member of the F-box gene family. The encoded protein contains an F-box motif and a domain that might form a structure similar to a leucine-rich repeat found in placental RNAse inhibitor. This locus may be associated with copy number variation of UGT2B17 (GeneID 7367), which has been associated with susceptibility to osteoporosis.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000106278	 This gene encodes a member of the receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase family. Expression of this gene is restricted to the central nervous system (CNS), and it may be involved in the regulation of specific developmental processes in the CNS. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000206178	 The human alpha globin gene cluster located on chromosome 16 spans about 30 kb and includes 4 functional genes and 3 pseudogenes. The order of genes is: 5'- zeta - pseudozeta - pseudoalpha2 - pseudoalpha1 - alpha2 - alpha1 - theta1 - 3'. Hemoglobin zeta and theta are expressed in early embryonic and fetal erythroid tissues, while hemoglobin alpha is produced throughout fetal and adult life. The alpha 2 and alpha 1 coding sequences are identical, however, the 2 genes differ slightly over the 5' untranslated regions and the introns, but significantly over the 3' untranslated regions. Two alpha chains combine with two beta chains to constitute HbA, which in normal adult life comprises about 97% of the total hemoglobin. Alpha thalassemias result from the deletion of alpha genes. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000152661	 This gene is a member of the connexin gene family. The encoded protein is a component of gap junctions, which are composed of arrays of intercellular channels that provide a route for the diffusion of low molecular weight materials from cell to cell. The encoded protein is the major protein of gap junctions in the heart that are thought to have a crucial role in the synchronized contraction of the heart and in embryonic development. A related intronless pseudogene has been mapped to chromosome 5. Mutations in this gene have been associated with oculodentodigital dysplasia and heart malformations. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187893	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AL009172.1. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000042429	 The activation of gene transcription is a multistep process that is triggered by factors that recognize transcriptional enhancer sites in DNA. These factors work with co-activators to direct transcriptional initiation by the RNA polymerase II apparatus. The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the CRSP (cofactor required for SP1 activation) complex, which, along with TFIID, is required for efficient activation by SP1. This protein is also a component of other multisubunit complexes e.g. thyroid hormone receptor-(TR-) associated proteins which interact with TR and facilitate TR function on DNA templates in conjunction with initiation factors and cofactors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182636	 This intronless gene is located in the Prader-Willi syndrome deletion region. It is an imprinted gene and is expressed exclusively from the paternal allele. Studies in mouse suggest that the protein encoded by this gene may suppress growth in postmitotic neurons. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134595	 This gene encodes a member of the SOX (SRY-related HMG-box) family of transcription factors involved in the regulation of embryonic development and in the determination of the cell fate. The encoded protein may act as a transcriptional regulator after forming a protein complex with other proteins. Mutations in this gene have been associated with X-linked mental retardation with growth hormone deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000070915	 This gene encodes a renal thiazide-sensitive sodium-chloride cotransporter that is important for electrolyte homeostasis. This cotransporter mediates sodium and chloride reabsorption in the distal convoluted tubule. Mutations in this gene cause Gitelman syndrome, a disease similar to Bartter's syndrome, that is characterized by hypokalemic alkalosis combined with hypomagnesemia, low urinary calcium, and increased renin activity associated with normal blood pressure. This cotransporter is the target for thiazide diuretics that are used for treating high blood pressure. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000158290	 This gene is a member of the cullin family. The encoded protein forms a complex that functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase and catalyzes the polyubiquitination of specific protein substrates in the cell. The protein interacts with a ring finger protein, and is required for the proteolysis of several regulators of DNA replication including chromatin licensing and DNA replication factor 1 and cyclin E. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000062194	 This gene was originally isolated by subtractive hybridization of cDNAs expressed in atherosclerotic plaques with a thrombus, and was found to be expressed only in vascular smooth muscle cells. However, a shorter splice variant was found to be more ubiquitously expressed. This protein is suggested to play a role in the development of atherosclerosis. Studies in mice suggest that it may also function as a GC-rich promoter-specific trans-activating transcription factor. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000130385	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the bone morphogenetic protein family which is part of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily. The transforming growth factor-beta superfamily includes large families of growth and differentiation factors. It is thought that this protein may be involved in oocyte maturation and follicular development as a homodimer or by forming heterodimers with a related protein, Gdf9. Defects in this gene are the cause of ovarian dysgenesis 2.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000113594	 This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the type I cytokine receptor family. This protein combines with a high-affinity converter subunit, gp130, to form a receptor complex that mediates the action of the leukemia inhibitory factor, a polyfunctional cytokine that is involved in cellular differentiation, proliferation and survival in the adult and the embryo. Mutations in this gene cause Schwartz-Jampel syndrome type 2, a disease belonging to the group of the bent-bone dysplasias. A translocation that involves the promoter of this gene, t(5;8)(p13;q12) with the pleiomorphic adenoma gene 1, is associated with salivary gland pleiomorphic adenoma, a common type of benign epithelial tumor of the salivary gland. Multiple splice variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000049089	 This gene encodes one of the three alpha chains of type IX collagen, the major collagen component of hyaline cartilage. Type IX collagen, a heterotrimeric molecule, is usually found in tissues containing type II collagen, a fibrillar collagen. This chain is unusual in that, unlike the other two type IX alpha chains, it contains a covalently attached glycosaminoglycan side chain. Mutations in this gene are associated with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123500	 This gene encodes the alpha chain of type X collagen, a short chain collagen expressed by hypertrophic chondrocytes during endochondral ossification. Unlike type VIII collagen, the other short chain collagen, type X collagen is a homotrimer. Mutations in this gene are associated with Schmid type metaphyseal chondrodysplasia (SMCD) and Japanese type spondylometaphyseal dysplasia (SMD). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000060718	 This gene encodes one of the two alpha chains of type XI collagen, a minor fibrillar collagen. Type XI collagen is a heterotrimer but the third alpha chain is a post-translationally modified alpha 1 type II chain. Mutations in this gene are associated with type II Stickler syndrome and with Marshall syndrome. A single-nucleotide polymorphism in this gene is also associated with susceptibility to lumbar disc herniation. Multiple transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000006695	 Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes heme A:farnesyltransferase, which is not a structural subunit but required for the expression of functional COX and functions in the maturation of the heme A prosthetic group of COX. This protein is predicted to contain 7-9 transmembrane domains localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane. A gene mutation, which results in the substitution of a lysine for an asparagine (N204K), is identified to be responsible for cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. In addition, this gene is disrupted in patients with CMT1A (Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1A) duplication and with HNPP (hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies) deletion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157184	 The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear protein which is transported to the mitochondrial inner membrane. Together with carnitine palmitoyltransferase I, the encoded protein oxidizes long-chain fatty acids in the mitochondria. Defects in this gene are associated with mitochondrial long-chain fatty-acid (LCFA) oxidation disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108255	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Beta-crystallins, the most heterogeneous, differ by the presence of the C-terminal extension (present in the basic group, none in the acidic group). Beta-crystallins form aggregates of different sizes and are able to self-associate to form dimers or to form heterodimers with other beta-crystallins. This gene, a beta acidic group member, encodes two proteins (crystallin, beta A3 and crystallin, beta A1) from a single mRNA, the latter protein is 17 aa shorter than crystallin, beta A3 and is generated by use of an alternate translation initiation site. Deletion of exons 3 and 4 causes the autosomal dominant disease 'zonular cataract with sutural opacities'. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163254	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Gamma-crystallins are a homogeneous group of highly symmetrical, monomeric proteins typically lacking connecting peptides and terminal extensions. They are differentially regulated after early development. Four gamma-crystallin genes (gamma-A through gamma-D) and three pseudogenes (gamma-E, gamma-F, gamma-G) are tandemly organized in a genomic segment as a gene cluster. Whether due to aging or mutations in specific genes, gamma-crystallins have been involved in cataract formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000118231	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Gamma-crystallins are a homogeneous group of highly symmetrical, monomeric proteins typically lacking connecting peptides and terminal extensions. They are differentially regulated after early development. Four gamma-crystallin genes (gamma-A through gamma-D) and three pseudogenes (gamma-E, gamma-F, gamma-G) are tandemly organized in a genomic segment as a gene cluster. Whether due to aging or mutations in specific genes, gamma-crystallins have been involved in cataract formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000225614	 This gene encodes a zinc-finger protein. Low-percent homology to certain collagens suggests that it may function as a transcription factor or extra-nuclear regulator factor for the synthesis or organization of collagen fibers. Mutations in this gene cause brittle cornea syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157796	 This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. This protein contains six WD repeats, a clathrin heavy-chain repeat, and three transmembrane domains. This gene is conserved from C. elegans to human. It may participate in androgen-regulated signaling mechanisms or in the vesicular trafficking of androgen-regulated secretory processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported but the full-length nature of one of these variants has not been defined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000091138	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane glycoprotein that transports chloride ions across the cell membrane in exchange for bicarbonate ions. It is localized to the mucosa of the lower intestinal tract, particularly to the apical membrane of columnar epithelium and some goblet cells. The protein is essential for intestinal chloride absorption, and mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital chloride diarrhea. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000116183	 This gene encodes a member of the pappalysin family of metzincin metalloproteinases. The encoded protein cleaves insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 5 and is thought to be a local regulator of insulin-like growth factor (IGF) bioavailability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000170374	 This gene encodes a member of the Sp subfamily of Sp/XKLF transcription factors. Sp family proteins are sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins characterized by an amino-terminal trans-activation domain and three carboxy-terminal zinc finger motifs. This protein is a bone specific transcription factor and is required for osteoblast differentiation and bone formation.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000122126	 This gene encodes a phosphatase enzyme that is involved in actin polymerization and is found in the trans-Golgi network. Mutations in this gene cause oculocerebrorenal syndrome of Lowe and also Dent disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113946	 Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and serving as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space. These junctions are comprised of sets of continuous networking strands in the outwardly facing cytoplasmic leaflet, with complementary grooves in the inwardly facing extracytoplasmic leaflet. The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the claudin family, is an integral membrane protein and a component of tight junction strands. It is found primarily in the kidneys, specifically in the thick ascending limb of Henle, where it acts as either an intercellular pore or ion concentration sensor to regulate the paracellular resorption of magnesium ions. Defects in this gene are a cause of primary hypomagnesemia, which is characterized by massive renal magnesium wasting with hypomagnesemia and hypercalciuria, resulting in nephrocalcinosis and renal failure. This gene and the CLDN1 gene are clustered on chromosome 3q28. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000131808	 The pituitary glycoprotein hormone family includes follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, chorionic gonadotropin, and thyroid-stimulating hormone. All of these glycoproteins consist of an identical alpha subunit and a hormone-specific beta subunit. This gene encodes the beta subunit of follicle-stimulating hormone. In conjunction with luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone induces egg and sperm production. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105929	 This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of intracellular compartments of eukaryotic cells. V-ATPase dependent acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c'', and d. This gene is one of four genes in man and mouse that encode different isoforms of the a subunit. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described. Mutations in this gene are associated with renal tubular acidosis associated with preserved hearing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170820	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to family 1 of G-protein coupled receptors. It is the receptor for follicle stimulating hormone and functions in gonad development. Mutations in this gene cause ovarian dysgenesis type 1, and also ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000182508	 This gene is a member of the lipoma HMGIC fusion partner (LHFP) gene family, which is a subset of the superfamily of tetraspan transmembrane protein encoding genes. Mutations in one LHFP-like gene result in deafness in humans and mice, and a second LHFP-like gene is fused to a high-mobility group gene in a translocation-associated lipoma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000008311	 This gene encodes a bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the first two steps in the mammalian lysine degradation pathway. The N-terminal and the C-terminal portions of this enzyme contain lysine-ketoglutarate reductase and saccharopine dehydrogenase activity, respectively, resulting in the conversion of lysine to alpha-aminoadipic semialdehyde. Mutations in this gene are associated with familial hyperlysinemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105755	 This gene encodes a sulfur dioxygenase that localizes within the mitochondrial matrix. The enzyme functions in sulfide catabolism. Mutations in this gene result in ethylmalonic encephalopathy.[provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000109536	 This gene maps to a location 100 kb centromeric of the repeat units on chromosome 4q35 which are deleted in facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD). It is evolutionarily conserved and has related sequences on multiple human chromosomes but DNA sequence analysis did not reveal any homology to known genes. In vivo studies demonstrate the encoded protein is localized to the nucleolus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136531	 Voltage-gated sodium channels are transmembrane glycoprotein complexes composed of a large alpha subunit with 24 transmembrane domains and one or more regulatory beta subunits. They are responsible for the generation and propagation of action potentials in neurons and muscle. This gene encodes one member of the sodium channel alpha subunit gene family. It is heterogeneously expressed in the brain, and mutations in this gene have been linked to several seizure disorders. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000099715	 This gene belongs to the protocadherin gene family, a subfamily of the cadherin superfamily. The encoded protein consists of an extracellular domain containing 7 cadherin repeats, a transmembrane domain and a cytoplasmic tail that differs from those of the classical cadherins. The gene is located in a major X/Y block of homology and its most closely related cadherin superfamily member is located in this homologous region on the X chromosome. The protein is thought to play a fundamental role in cell-cell recognition essential for the segmental development and function of the central nervous system. Transcripts arising from alternative splicing encode isoforms with N- and C-terminal variation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145715	 The protein encoded by this gene is located in the cytoplasm and is part of the GAP1 family of GTPase-activating proteins. The gene product stimulates the GTPase activity of normal RAS p21 but not its oncogenic counterpart. Acting as a suppressor of RAS function, the protein enhances the weak intrinsic GTPase activity of RAS proteins resulting in the inactive GDP-bound form of RAS, thereby allowing control of cellular proliferation and differentiation. Mutations leading to changes in the binding sites of either protein are associated with basal cell carcinomas. Mutations also have been associated with hereditary capillary malformations (CM) with or without arteriovenous malformations (AVM) and Parkes Weber syndrome. Alternative splicing results in two isoforms where the shorter isoform, lacking the N-terminal hydrophobic region but retaining the same activity, appears to be abundantly expressed in placental but not adult tissues. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000091592	 This gene encodes a member of the Ced-4 family of apoptosis proteins. Ced-family members contain a caspase recruitment domain (CARD) and are known to be key mediators of programmed cell death. The encoded protein contains a distinct N-terminal pyrin-like motif, which is possibly involved in protein-protein interactions. This protein interacts strongly with caspase 2 and weakly with caspase 9. Overexpression of this gene was demonstrated to induce apoptosis in cells. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene, but the biological validity of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162594	 The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the receptor for IL23A/IL23. This protein pairs with the receptor molecule IL12RB1/IL12Rbeta1, and both are required for IL23A signaling. This protein associates constitutively with Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), and also binds to transcription activator STAT3 in a ligand-dependent manner. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000153814	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein with three C2H2-type zinc fingers, and functions as a transcriptional repressor. Chromosomal aberrations involving this gene are associated with endometrial stromal tumors. Alternatively spliced variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described; however, not all variants have been fully characterized [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126233	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ly6/uPAR family but lacks a GPI-anchoring signal sequence. It is thought that this secreted protein contains antitumor activity. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Mal de Meleda, a rare autosomal recessive skin disorder. This gene maps to the same chromosomal region as several members of the Ly6/uPAR family of glycoprotein receptors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115267	 DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein that is upregulated in response to treatment with beta-interferon and a protein kinase C-activating compound, mezerein. Irreversible reprogramming of melanomas can be achieved by treatment with both these agents; treatment with either agent alone only achieves reversible differentiation. Genetic variation in this gene is associated with diabetes mellitus insulin-dependent type 19. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000164161	 This gene encodes a member of the hedgehog-interacting protein (HHIP) family. The hedgehog (HH) proteins are evolutionarily conserved protein, which are important morphogens for a wide range of developmental processes, including anteroposterior patterns of limbs and regulation of left-right asymmetry in embryonic development. Multiple cell-surface receptors are responsible for transducing and/or regulating HH signals. The HHIP encoded by this gene is a highly conserved, vertebrate-specific inhibitor of HH signaling. It interacts with all three HH family members, SHH, IHH and DHH. Two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) near this gene are significantly associated with risk of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). A single nucleotide polymorphism in this gene is also strongly associated with human height.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000124198	 ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs) play an important role in intracellular vesicular trafficking. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the activation of ARFs by accelerating replacement of bound GDP with GTP and is involved in Golgi transport. It contains a Sec7 domain, which may be responsible for its guanine-nucleotide exchange activity and also brefeldin A inhibition. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160207	 HSF2 binding protein (HSF2BP) associates with HSF2. The interaction occurs between the trimerization domain of HSF2 and the amino terminal hydrophilic region of HSF2BP that comprises two leucine zipper motifs. HSF2BP may therefore be involved in modulating HSF2 activation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136378	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) family. Members of this family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The protein encoded by this gene contains two C-terminal TS motifs. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108599	 This gene encodes a member of the A-kinase anchor protein family. A-kinase anchor proteins bind to the regulatory subunits of protein kinase A (PKA) and confine the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. The encoded protein is localized to mitochondria and interacts with both the type I and type II regulatory subunits of PKA. Polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with increased risk of arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000138193	 This gene encodes a phospholipase enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate to generate two second messengers: inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3) and diacylglycerol (DAG). These second messengers subsequently regulate various processes affecting cell growth, differentiation, and gene expression. This enzyme is regulated by small monomeric GTPases of the Ras and Rho families and by heterotrimeric G proteins. In addition to its phospholipase C catalytic activity, this enzyme has an N-terminal domain with guanine nucleotide exchange (GEF) activity. Mutations in this gene cause early-onset nephrotic syndrome; characterized by proteinuria, edema, and diffuse mesangial sclerosis or focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000163945	 The protein encoded by this gene appears to be involved in ubiquitination and dephosphorylation of RNA polymerase II subunits that stall after UV irradiation. The encoded protein interacts with several members of the nucleotide excision repair complex to help repair UV-induced DNA damage. Defects in this gene can cause UV-sensitive syndrome 3. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000071655	 DNA methylation is the major modification of eukaryotic genomes and plays an essential role in mammalian development. Human proteins MECP2, MBD1, MBD2, MBD3, and MBD4 comprise a family of nuclear proteins related by the presence in each of a methyl-CpG binding domain (MBD). However, unlike the other family members, MBD3 is not capable of binding to methylated DNA. The predicted MBD3 protein shares 71% and 94% identity with MBD2 (isoform 1) and mouse Mbd3.  MBD3 is a subunit of the NuRD, a multisubunit complex containing nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylase activities. MBD3 mediates the association of metastasis-associated protein 2 (MTA2) with the core histone deacetylase complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187243	 This gene is a member of the MAGED gene family. It is expressed only in brain and ovary, and some transcript variants of this gene are specifically expressed in glioma cells. This gene is clustered with other MAGED genes on chromosome Xp11. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000182541	 There are approximately 40 known eukaryotic LIM proteins, so named for the LIM domains they contain. LIM domains are highly conserved cysteine-rich structures containing 2 zinc fingers. Although zinc fingers usually function by binding to DNA or RNA, the LIM motif probably mediates protein-protein interactions. LIM kinase-1 and LIM kinase-2 belong to a small subfamily with a unique combination of 2 N-terminal LIM motifs and a C-terminal protein kinase domain. The protein encoded by this gene is phosphorylated and activated by ROCK, a downstream effector of Rho, and the encoded protein, in turn, phosphorylates cofilin, inhibiting its actin-depolymerizing activity. It is thought that this pathway contributes to Rho-induced reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. At least three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000205649	 This gene encodes a member of the histatin family of small, histidine-rich salivary proteins. Histatins exhibit non-immunological, anti-microbial activity in the oral cavity. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000124782	 The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor that binds to RAS-responsive elements (RREs) of gene promoters. It has been shown that the calcitonin gene promoter contains an RRE and that the encoded protein binds there and increases expression of calcitonin, which may be involved in Ras/Raf-mediated cell differentiation. Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000100373	 This gene encodes a member of the uroplakin family, a group of transmembrane proteins that form complexes on the apical surface of the bladder epithelium. Mutations in this gene may be associated with renal adysplasia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000099204	 This gene encodes a cytoskeletal LIM protein that binds to actin filaments via a domain that is homologous to erythrocyte dematin. LIM domains, found in over 60 proteins, play key roles in the regulation of developmental pathways. LIM domains also function as protein-binding interfaces, mediating specific protein-protein interactions. The protein encoded by this gene could mediate such interactions between actin filaments and cytoplasmic targets. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114948	 This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. This gene is highly expressed in the brain and may function as an integrin ligand in the brain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115840	 This gene encodes a calcium-binding mitochondrial carrier protein. The encoded protein localizes to the mitochondria and is involved in the exchange of aspartate for glutamate across the inner mitochondrial membrane. Polymorphisms in the gene encoding this protein may be associated with risk of autism. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000107249	 This gene is a member of the GLI-similar zinc finger protein family and encodes a nuclear protein with five C2H2-type zinc finger domains. This protein functions as both a repressor and activator of transcription and is specifically involved in the development of pancreatic beta cells, the thyroid, eye, liver and kidney. Mutations in this gene have been associated with neonatal diabetes and congenital hypothyroidism (NDH). Alternatively spliced variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described but the full-length nature of only two have been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173614	 This gene encodes an enzyme which catalyzes a key step in the biosynthesis of the coenzyme NAD. The encoded protein is one of several nicotinamide nucleotide adenylyltransferases. Studies in Drosophila and mammalian neurons have shown the encoded protein can confer protection to damaged neurons. This protection requires enzymatic activity which increases NAD levels and activates a nuclear deacetylase which is the protective molecule. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 1, 3, 4, 14 and 15. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000119977	 This gene encodes a member of the tectonic gene family which functions in Hedgehog signal transduction and development of the neural tube. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Orofaciodigital Syndrome IV and Joubert Syndrom 18. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000222040	 Alpha-2-adrenergic receptors are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. They include 3 highly homologous subtypes: alpha2A, alpha2B, and alpha2C. These receptors have a critical role in regulating neurotransmitter release from sympathetic nerves and from adrenergic neurons in the central nervous system. This intronless gene encodes the alpha2B subtype, which was observed to associate with eIF-2B, a guanine nucleotide exchange protein that functions in regulation of translation. A polymorphic variant of the alpha2B subtype, which lacks 3 glutamic acids from a glutamic acid repeat element, was identified to have decreased G protein-coupled receptor kinase-mediated phosphorylation and desensitization; this polymorphic form is also associated with reduced basal metabolic rate in obese subjects and may therefore contribute to the pathogenesis of obesity. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000197253	 Tryptases comprise a family of trypsin-like serine proteases, the peptidase family S1. Tryptases are enzymatically active only as heparin-stabilized tetramers, and they are resistant to all known endogenous proteinase inhibitors. Several tryptase genes are clustered on chromosome 16p13.3. These genes are characterized by several distinct features. They have a highly conserved 3' UTR and contain tandem repeat sequences at the 5' flank and 3' UTR which are thought to play a role in regulation of the mRNA stability. These genes have an intron immediately upstream of the initiator Met codon, which separates the site of transcription initiation from protein coding sequence. This feature is characteristic of tryptases but is unusual in other genes. The alleles of this gene exhibit an unusual amount of sequence variation, such that the alleles were once thought to represent two separate genes, beta II and beta III. Beta tryptases appear to be the main isoenzymes expressed in mast cells, whereas in basophils, alpha-tryptases predominate. Tryptases have been implicated as mediators in the pathogenesis of asthma and other allergic and inflammatory disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000018610	 While this gene is well-supported by transcript data, no functional information on its protein products is currently available. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000104267	 CA2 is one of several (at least 7) isozymes of carbonic anhydrase.  Carbonic anhydrase catalyzes reversible hydration of carbon dioxide.  Defects in this enzyme are associated with osteopetrosis and renal tubular acidosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000076248	 This gene encodes one of several uracil-DNA glycosylases. One important function of uracil-DNA glycosylases is to prevent mutagenesis by eliminating uracil from DNA molecules by cleaving the N-glycosylic bond and initiating the base-excision repair (BER) pathway. Uracil bases occur from cytosine deamination or misincorporation of dUMP residues. Alternative promoter usage and splicing of this gene leads to two different isoforms: the mitochondrial UNG1 and the nuclear UNG2. The UNG2 term was used as a previous symbol for the CCNO gene (GeneID 10309), which has been confused with this gene, in the literature and some databases. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000021852	 C8 beta is one of the three subunits that comprise the component 8 (C8) of the complement system. C8 participates in the formation of Membrane Attack Complex that results in the lysis of cells. Patients with C8B deficiency are prone to bacteria infection. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173372	 This gene encodes a major constituent of the human complement subcomponent C1q. C1q associates with C1r and C1s in order to yield the first component of the serum complement system. Deficiency of C1q has been associated with lupus erythematosus and glomerulonephritis. C1q is composed of 18 polypeptide chains: six A-chains, six B-chains, and six C-chains. Each chain contains a collagen-like region located near the N terminus and a C-terminal globular region. The A-, B-, and C-chains are arranged in the order A-C-B on chromosome 1. This gene encodes the A-chain polypeptide of human complement subcomponent C1q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173369	 This gene encodes a major constituent of the human complement subcomponent C1q. C1q associates with C1r and C1s in order to yield the first component of the serum complement system. Deficiency of C1q has been associated with lupus erythematosus and glomerulonephritis. C1q is composed of 18 polypeptide chains: six A-chains, six B-chains, and six C-chains. Each chain contains a collagen-like region located near the N terminus and a C-terminal globular region. The A-, B-, and C-chains are arranged in the order A-C-B on chromosome 1. This gene encodes the B-chain polypeptide of human complement subcomponent C1q [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102245	 The protein encoded by this gene is expressed on the surface of T cells. It regulates B cell function by engaging CD40 on the B cell surface. A defect in this gene results in an inability to undergo immunoglobulin class switch and is associated with hyper-IgM syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000240505	 The protein encoded by this gene is a lymphocyte-specific member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor superfamily. It interacts with calcium-modulator and cyclophilin ligand (CAML). The protein induces activation of the transcription factors NFAT, AP1, and NF-kappa-B and plays a crucial role in humoral immunity by interacting with a TNF ligand. This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000240972	 This gene encodes a lymphokine involved in cell-mediated immunity, immunoregulation, and inflammation. It plays a role in the regulation of macrophage function in host defense through the suppression of anti-inflammatory effects of glucocorticoids. This lymphokine and the JAB1 protein form a complex in the cytosol near the peripheral plasma membrane, which may indicate an additional role in integrin signaling pathways. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169895	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL445467.6. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000120280	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AC005913.2. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000183837	 This gene is a member of the paraneoplastic antigen MA (PNMA) gene family, whose protein products share homology with retroviral Gag proteins. They are highly expressed in the brain and also in a range of tumors associated with serious neurological phenotypes. PMID:16407312 reports the presence of a functional -1 ribosomal frameshift signal (consisting of a heptanucleotide shift motif followed 3' by a pseudoknot structure) in this gene, however, the frame-shifted product has not been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSGR0000167393	 Protein phosphatase 2 (formerly named type 2A) is one of the four major Ser/Thr phosphatases and is implicated in the negative control of cell growth and division. Protein phosphatase 2 holoenzymes are heterotrimeric proteins composed of a structural subunit A, a catalytic subunit C, and a regulatory subunit B. The regulatory subunit is encoded by a diverse set of genes that have been grouped into the B/PR55, B'/PR61, and B''/PR72 families. These different regulatory subunits confer distinct enzymatic specificities and intracellular localizations to the holozenzyme. The product of this gene belongs to the B'' family. The B'' family has been further divided into subfamilies. The product of this gene belongs to the beta subfamily of regulatory subunit B''. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000128604	 This gene encodes a member of the interferon regulatory factor (IRF) family, a group of transcription factors with diverse roles, including virus-mediated activation of interferon, and modulation of cell growth, differentiation, apoptosis, and immune system activity. Members of the IRF family are characterized by a conserved N-terminal DNA-binding domain containing tryptophan (W) repeats. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, and a 30-nt indel polymorphism (SNP rs60344245) can result in loss of a 10-aa segment. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000080493	 This gene encodes a sodium bicarbonate cotransporter (NBC) involved in the regulation of bicarbonate secretion and absorption and intracellular pH. Mutations in this gene are associated with proximal renal tubular acidosis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000184226	 This gene encodes a member of the protocadherin family, and cadherin superfamily, of transmembrane proteins containing cadherin domains. These proteins mediate cell adhesion in neural tissues in the presence of calcium. The encoded protein may be involved in signaling at neuronal synaptic junctions. Sharing a characteristic with other protocadherin genes, this gene has a notably large exon that encodes multiple cadherin domains and a transmembrane region. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]. 
ENSG00000221887	 This gene encodes a serpin-domain containing protein that may function as a serine protease inhibitor. This gene is primarily expressed in cells of myeloid lineage. A polymorphism in this gene may result in the expression a splice variant that encodes a minor histocompatibility antigen. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000172059	 The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor that binds to SP1-like sequences in epsilon- and gamma-globin gene promoters. This binding inhibits cell growth and causes apoptosis. Defects in this gene are a cause of maturity-onset diabetes of the young type 7 (MODY7). Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000174886	 This gene encodes a subunit of the membrane-bound mitochondrial complex I. Complex I is composed of numerous subunits and functions as the NADH-ubiquinol reductase of the mitochondrial electron transport chain. Mutations in this gene are associated with severe mitochondrial complex I deficiency. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000133019	 The muscarinic cholinergic receptors belong to a larger family of G protein-coupled receptors. The functional diversity of these receptors is defined by the binding of acetylcholine and includes cellular responses such as adenylate cyclase inhibition, phosphoinositide degeneration, and potassium channel mediation. Muscarinic receptors influence many effects of acetylcholine in the central and peripheral nervous system. The muscarinic cholinergic receptor 3 controls smooth muscle contraction and its stimulation causes secretion of glandular tissue. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162341	 This gene encodes a putative cation-selective ion channel with two repeats of a six-transmembrane-domain. The protein localizes to lysosomal membranes and enables nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP) -induced calcium ion release from lysosome-related stores. This ubiquitously expressed gene has elevated expression in liver and kidney. Two common nonsynonymous SNPs in this gene strongly associate with blond versus brown hair pigmentation.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000186184	 The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the RNA polymerase I and RNA polymerase III complexes, which function in the synthesis of ribosomal RNA precursors and small RNAs, respectively. Mutations in this gene are a cause of Treacher Collins syndrome (TCS), a craniofacial development disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000102128	 This gene encodes a member of the Rab40 subfamily of Rab small GTP-binding proteins that contains a C-terminal suppressors of cytokine signaling box. Disruptions in this gene are associated with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000130150	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AC140846.3 and AC121340.4. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000101076	 The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear transcription factor which binds DNA as a homodimer. The encoded protein controls the expression of several genes, including hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 alpha, a transcription factor which regulates the expression of several hepatic genes. This gene may play a role in development of the liver, kidney, and intestines. Mutations in this gene have been associated with monogenic autosomal dominant non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type I. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000188037	 The CLCN family of voltage-dependent chloride channel genes comprises nine members (CLCN1-7, Ka and Kb) which demonstrate quite diverse functional characteristics while sharing significant sequence homology. The protein encoded by this gene regulates the electric excitability of the skeletal muscle membrane. Mutations in this gene cause two forms of inherited human muscle disorders: recessive generalized myotonia congenita (Becker) and dominant myotonia (Thomsen). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000081248	 This gene encodes one of the five subunits of the slowly inactivating L-type voltage-dependent calcium channel in skeletal muscle cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hypokalemic periodic paralysis, thyrotoxic periodic paralysis and malignant hyperthermia susceptibility. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000185823	 This gene is located in the Prader-Willi syndrome region on chromosome 15. This gene is biallelically expressed in adult testis and brain but is paternally imprinted in fetal brain. Defects in this gene may be associated with Prader-Willi syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000102221	 This gene is part of a gene cluster on chromosome Xp11.23. The encoded protein contains a zinc finger motif often found in transcriptional regulators, however, its exact function is not known. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000090889	 This gene encodes a member of the kinesin 4 subfamily of kinesin related proteins. The encoded protein is an ATP dependent microtubule-based motor protein that is involved in the intracellular transport of membranous organelles. This protein also associates with condensed chromosome arms and may be involved in maintaining chromosome integrity during mitosis. This protein may also be involved in the organization of the central spindle prior to cytokinesis. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome X.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000100201	 DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure, such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and splicesosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, which is an ATPase activated by a variety of RNA species, but not by dsDNA. This protein, and that encoded by DDX5 gene, are more closely related to each other than to any other member of the DEAD box family. This gene can encode multiple isoforms due to both alternative splicing and the use of alternative translation initiation codons, including a non-AUG (CUG) start codon. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000145604	 This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Fbls class; in addition to an F-box, this protein contains 10 tandem leucine-rich repeats. This protein is an essential element of the cyclin A-CDK2 S-phase kinase. It specifically recognizes phosphorylated cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1B (CDKN1B, also referred to as p27 or KIP1) predominantly in S phase and interacts with S-phase kinase-associated protein 1 (SKP1 or p19). In addition, this gene is established as a protooncogene causally involved in the pathogenesis of lymphomas. Alternative splicing of this gene generates three transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000101974	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL356785.18 and AL161777.4. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000175164	 This gene encodes proteins related to the first discovered blood group system, ABO. Which allele is present in an individual determines the blood group. The 'O' blood group is caused by a deletion of guanine-258 near the N-terminus of the protein which results in a frameshift and translation of an almost entirely different protein. Individuals with the A, B, and AB alleles express glycosyltransferase activities that convert the H antigen into the A or B antigen. Other minor alleles have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the ABO*A1.01.1.2 allele. 
ENSG00000133805	 This gene encodes a member of the AMP deaminase gene family. The encoded protein is a highly regulated enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolytic deamination of adenosine monophosphate to inosine monophosphate, a branch point in the adenylate catabolic pathway. This gene encodes the erythrocyte (E) isoforms, whereas other family members encode isoforms that predominate in muscle (M) and liver (L) cells. Mutations in this gene lead to the clinically asymptomatic, autosomal recessive condition erythrocyte AMP deaminase deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms of this gene have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162688	 This gene encodes the glycogen debrancher enzyme which is involved in glycogen degradation. This enzyme has two independent catalytic activities which occur at different sites on the protein: a 4-alpha-glucotransferase activity and a amylo-1,6-glucosidase activity. Mutations in this gene are associated with glycogen storage disease although a wide range of enzymatic and clinical variability occurs which may be due to tissue-specific alternative splicing. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000189221	 This gene is one of two neighboring gene family members that encode mitochondrial enzymes which catalyze the oxidative deamination of amines, such as dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin. Mutation of this gene results in Brunner syndrome. This gene has also been associated with a variety of other psychiatric disorders, including antisocial behavior. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000189143	 This gene encodes an integral membrane protein, which belongs to the claudin family. The protein is a component of tight junction strands and may play a role in internal organ development and function during pre- and postnatal life. This gene is deleted in Williams-Beuren syndrome, a neurodevelopmental disorder affecting multiple systems. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000152939	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein found at the tight junctions between epithelial cells. The encoded protein helps establish epithelial barriers such as those in the organ of Corti, where these barriers are required for normal hearing. Defects in this gene are a cause of deafness autosomal recessive type 49 (DFNB49). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000138375	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SWI/SNF family of proteins. Members of this family have helicase and ATPase activities and are thought to regulate transcription of certain genes by altering the chromatin structure around those genes. The encoded protein shows sequence similarity to the E. coli RNA polymerase-binding protein HepA. Mutations in this gene are a cause of Schimke immunoosseous dysplasia (SIOD), an autosomal recessive disorder with the diagnostic features of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, renal dysfunction, and T-cell immunodeficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000011198	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a large family of proteins defined by an alpha/beta hydrolase fold, and contains three sequence motifs that correspond to a catalytic triad found in the esterase/lipase/thioesterase subfamily. It differs from other members of this subfamily in that its putative catalytic triad contains an asparagine instead of the serine residue. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Chanarin-Dorfman syndrome, a triglyceride storage disease with impaired long-chain fatty acid oxidation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000139428	 This gene encodes a protein that catalyzes the final step in the conversion of vitamin B(12) into adenosylcobalamin (AdoCbl), a vitamin B12-containing coenzyme for methylmalonyl-CoA mutase. Mutations in the gene are the cause of vitamin B12-dependent methylmalonic aciduria linked to the cblB complementation group. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000242802	 This gene was identified by genome-wide screen for genes involved in homologous recombination DNA double-strand break repair (HR-DSBR). The encoded protein was found in a complex with other proteins that have a role in HR-DSBR. Knockdown of this gene reduced homologous recombination, and mutations in this gene were found in patients with spastic paraplegia. It was concluded that this gene likely encodes a helicase (PMID:20613862). [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000184381	 The protein encoded by this gene is an A2 phospholipase, a class of enzyme that catalyzes the release of fatty acids from phospholipids. The encoded protein may play a role in phospholipid remodelling, arachidonic acid release, leukotriene and prostaglandin synthesis, fas-mediated apoptosis, and transmembrane ion flux in glucose-stimulated B-cells. Several transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been described, but the full-length nature of only three of them have been determined to date. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000108231	 This gene is rearranged as a result of translocations in glioblastoma cell lines. The protein contains a hydrophobic segment representing a putative transmembrane domain with the amino terminus located outside the cell. It also contains leucine-rich repeats with conserved cysteine-rich flanking sequences. This gene is predominantly expressed in neural tissues and its expression is reduced in low grade brain tumors and significantly reduced or absent in malignant gliomas. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal dominant lateral temporal epilepsy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135272	 This gene product is a member of a family of proteins characterized by a specific cysteine-rich C-terminal domain, which is involved in transcriptional regulation of viral genome expression. Alternative translation initiation from an upstream non-AUG (GUG), and an in-frame, downstream AUG codon, results in the production of two isoforms, p40 and p32, respectively, which have different subcellular localization; p32 is mainly found in the cytoplasm, whereas p40 is targeted to the nucleolus. Both isoforms have transcriptional regulatory activity that is attributable to the cysteine-rich C-terminal domain. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000144554	 The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2). The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementation group D2. This protein is monoubiquinated in response to DNA damage, resulting in its localization to nuclear foci with other proteins (BRCA1 AND BRCA2) involved in homology-directed DNA repair. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000221829	 The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2). The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementation group G. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000226929	 This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000006075	 This locus represents a small inducible cytokine. The encoded protein, also known as macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha, plays a role in inflammatory responses through binding to the receptors CCR1, CCR4 and CCR5. Polymorphisms at this locus may be associated with both resistance and susceptibility to infection by human immunodeficiency virus type 1.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000086730	 This gene is one of the contiguous genes at 7q11.23 commonly deleted in Williams syndrome, a multisystem developmental disorder. This gene consists of at least 14 exons, and its alternative splicing generates 3 transcript variants, all encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165458	 The protein encoded by this gene is an SH2-containing 5'-inositol phosphatase that is involved in the regulation of insulin function. The encoded protein also plays a role in the regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor turnover and actin remodelling. Additionally, this gene supports metastatic growth in breast cancer and is a valuable biomarker for breast cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000169184	 Meningioma 1 (MN1) contains two sets of CAG repeats. It is disrupted by a balanced translocation (4;22) in a meningioma, and its inactivation may contribute to meningioma 32 pathogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000107745	 This gene encodes an essential regulator of mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake under basal conditions. The encoded protein interacts with the mitochondrial calcium uniporter, a mitochondrial inner membrane Ca2+ channel, and is essential in preventing mitochondrial Ca2+ overload, which can cause excessive production of reactive oxygen species and cell stress. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000173992	 Copper chaperone for superoxide dismutase specifically delivers Cu to copper/zinc superoxide dismutase and may activate copper/zinc superoxide dismutase through direct insertion of the Cu cofactor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112715	 This gene is a member of the PDGF/VEGF growth factor family and encodes a protein that is often found as a disulfide linked homodimer. This protein is a glycosylated mitogen that specifically acts on endothelial cells and has various effects, including mediating increased vascular permeability, inducing angiogenesis, vasculogenesis and endothelial cell growth, promoting cell migration, and inhibiting apoptosis. Elevated levels of this protein is linked to POEMS syndrome, also known as Crow-Fukase syndrome. Mutations in this gene have been associated with proliferative and nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants, encoding either freely secreted or cell-associated isoforms, have been characterized. There is also evidence for the use of non-AUG (CUG) translation initiation sites upstream of, and in-frame with the first AUG, leading to additional isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000111424	 This gene encodes the nuclear hormone receptor for vitamin D3. This receptor also functions as a receptor for the secondary bile acid lithocholic acid. The receptor belongs to the family of trans-acting transcriptional regulatory factors and shows sequence similarity to the steroid and thyroid hormone receptors. Downstream targets of this nuclear hormone receptor are principally involved in mineral metabolism though the receptor regulates a variety of other metabolic pathways, such as those involved in the immune response and cancer. Mutations in this gene are associated with type II vitamin D-resistant rickets. A single nucleotide polymorphism in the initiation codon results in an alternate translation start site three codons downstream. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000021574	 This gene encodes a member of the AAA (ATPases associated with a variety of cellular activities) protein family. Members of this protein family share an ATPase domain and have roles in diverse cellular processes including membrane trafficking, intracellular motility, organelle biogenesis, protein folding, and proteolysis. The encoded ATPase may be involved in the assembly or function of nuclear protein complexes. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. Other alternative splice variants have been described but their full length sequences have not been determined. Mutations associated with this gene cause the most frequent form of autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia 4. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000080546	 This gene encodes a member of the sestrin family. Sestrins are induced by the p53 tumor suppressor protein and play a role in the cellular response to DNA damage and oxidative stress. The encoded protein mediates p53 inhibition of cell growth by activating AMP-activated protein kinase, which results in the inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin protein. The encoded protein also plays a critical role in antioxidant defense by regenerating overoxidized peroxiredoxins, and the expression of this gene is a potential marker for exposure to radiation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000074410	 Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. This gene product is a type I membrane protein that is highly expressed in normal tissues, such as kidney, colon and pancreas, and has been found to be overexpressed in 10% of clear cell renal carcinomas. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147082	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as positive regulators of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), and thereby play an essential role in the control of the cell cycle. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns, which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. Studies of similar genes in chicken and drosophila suggest that this cyclin may associate with CDC2 and CDK2 kinases, and may be required for proper spindle reorganization and restoration of the interphase nucleus. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000198399	 This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein which contains SH3 domains. This protein is a member of a family of proteins involved in clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Intersectin 2 is thought to regulate the formation of clathrin-coated vesicles and also may function in the induction of T cell antigen receptor (TCR) endocytosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene that encode three distinct isoforms. Additional variants have been found but their full length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101439	 The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type 2 cystatin proteins are a class of cysteine proteinase inhibitors found in a variety of human fluids and secretions, where they appear to provide protective functions. The cystatin locus on chromosome 20 contains the majority of the type 2 cystatin genes and pseudogenes. This gene is located in the cystatin locus and encodes the most abundant extracellular inhibitor of cysteine proteases, which is found in high concentrations in biological fluids and is expressed in virtually all organs of the body. A mutation in this gene has been associated with amyloid angiopathy. Expression of this protein in vascular wall smooth muscle cells is severely reduced in both atherosclerotic and aneurysmal aortic lesions, establishing its role in vascular disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182979	 This gene encodes a protein that was identified in a screen for genes expressed in metastatic cells, specifically, mammary adenocarcinoma cell lines. Expression of this gene has been correlated with the metastatic potential of at least two types of carcinomas although it is also expressed in many normal tissues. The role it plays in metastasis is unclear. It was initially thought to be the 70kD component of a nucleosome remodeling deacetylase complex, NuRD, but it is more likely that this component is a different but very similar protein. These two proteins are so closely related, though, that they share the same types of domains. These domains include two DNA binding domains, a dimerization domain, and a domain commonly found in proteins that methylate DNA. The profile and activity of this gene product suggest that it is involved in regulating transcription and that this may be accomplished by chromatin remodeling. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000091140	 This gene encodes the L protein of the mitochondrial glycine cleavage system. The L protein, also named dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase, is also a component of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex, and the branched-chain alpha-keto acide dehydrogenase complex. Mutations in this gene have been identified in patients with E3-deficient maple syrup urine disease and lipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114956	 In mammalian cells, the phosphorylation of purine deoxyribonucleosides is mediated predominantly by two deoxyribonucleoside kinases, cytosolic deoxycytidine kinase and mitochondrial deoxyguanosine kinase. The protein encoded by this gene is responsible for phosphorylation of purine deoxyribonucleosides in the mitochondrial matrix. In addition, this protein phosphorylates several purine deoxyribonucleoside analogs used in the treatment of lymphoproliferative disorders, and this phosphorylation is critical for the effectiveness of the analogs. Alternative splice variants encoding different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000085978	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of a large protein complex that is necessary for autophagy, the major process by which intracellular components are targeted to lysosomes for degradation. Defects in this gene are a cause of susceptibility to inflammatory bowel disease type 10 (IBD10). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000116761	 This gene encodes a cytoplasmic enzyme in the trans-sulfuration pathway that converts cystathione derived from methionine into cysteine. Glutathione synthesis in the liver is dependent upon the availability of cysteine. Mutations in this gene cause cystathioninuria. Alternative splicing of this gene results in three transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000100368	 The protein encoded by this gene is the common beta chain of the high affinity receptor for IL-3, IL-5 and CSF. Defects in this gene have been reported to be associated with protein alveolar proteinosis (PAP). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175084	 This gene encodes a muscle-specific class III intermediate filament. Homopolymers of this protein form a stable intracytoplasmic filamentous network connecting myofibrils to each other and to the plasma membrane. Mutations in this gene are associated with desmin-related myopathy, a familial cardiac and skeletal myopathy (CSM), and with distal myopathies. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104325	 This gene encodes an accessory enzyme which participates in the beta-oxidation and metabolism of unsaturated fatty enoyl-CoA esters. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197122	 This gene is highly similar to the v-src gene of Rous sarcoma virus. This proto-oncogene may play a role in the regulation of embryonic development and cell growth. The protein encoded by this gene is a tyrosine-protein kinase whose activity can be inhibited by phosphorylation by c-SRC kinase. Mutations in this gene could be involved in the malignant progression of colon cancer. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000107404	 DVL1, the human homolog of the Drosophila dishevelled gene (dsh) encodes a cytoplasmic phosphoprotein that regulates cell proliferation, acting as a transducer molecule for developmental processes, including segmentation and neuroblast specification. DVL1 is a candidate gene for neuroblastomatous transformation. The Schwartz-Jampel syndrome and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2A have been mapped to the same region as DVL1. The phenotypes of these diseases may be consistent with defects which might be expected from aberrant expression of a DVL gene during development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188095	 This gene encodes a member of the bHLH family of transcription factors and plays a key role in defining the rostrocaudal patterning of somites via interactions with multiple Notch signaling pathways. This gene is expressed in the anterior presomitic mesoderm and is downregulated immediately after the formation of segmented somites. This gene also plays a role in the formation of epithelial somitic mesoderm and cardiac mesoderm. Mutations in the MESP2 gene cause autosomal recessive spondylocostal dystosis 2 (SCD02). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000118762	 This gene encodes a member of the polycystin protein family. The encoded protein is a multi-pass membrane protein that functions as a calcium permeable cation channel, and is involved in calcium transport and calcium signaling in renal epithelial cells. This protein interacts with polycystin 1, and they may be partners in a common signaling cascade involved in tubular morphogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease type 2. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000171503	 Electron-transferring-flavoprotein dehydrogenase in the inner mitochondrial membrane accepts electrons from electron-transfer flavoprotein which is located in the mitochondrial matrix and reduces ubiquinone in the mitochondrial membrane.  The protein is synthesized as a 67-kDa precursor which is targeted to mitochondria and processed in a single step to a 64-kDa mature form located in the mitochondrial membrane. Deficiency in electron-transferring-flavoprotein dehydrogenase have been demonstrated in some patients with type II  glutaricacidemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135862	 Laminins, a family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins, are the major noncollagenous constituent of basement membranes. They have been implicated in a wide variety of biological processes including cell adhesion, differentiation, migration, signaling, neurite outgrowth and metastasis. Laminins, composed of 3 non identical chains: laminin alpha, beta and gamma (formerly A, B1, and B2, respectively), have a cruciform structure consisting of 3 short arms, each formed by a different chain, and a long arm composed of all 3 chains. Each laminin chain is a multidomain protein encoded by a distinct gene. Several isoforms of each chain have been described. Different alpha, beta and gamma chain isomers combine to give rise to different heterotrimeric laminin isoforms which are designated by Arabic numerals in the order of their discovery, i.e. alpha1beta1gamma1 heterotrimer is laminin 1. The biological functions of the different chains and trimer molecules are largely unknown, but some of the chains have been shown to differ with respect to their tissue distribution, presumably reflecting diverse functions in vivo. This gene encodes the gamma chain isoform laminin, gamma 1. The gamma 1 chain, formerly thought to be a beta chain, contains structural domains similar to beta chains, however, lacks the short alpha region separating domains I and II. The structural organization of this gene also suggested that it had diverged considerably from the beta chain genes. Embryos of transgenic mice in which both alleles of the gamma 1 chain gene were inactivated by homologous recombination, lacked basement membranes, indicating that laminin, gamma 1 chain is necessary for laminin heterotrimer assembly. It has been inferred by analogy with the strikingly similar 3' UTR sequence in mouse laminin gamma 1 cDNA, that multiple polyadenylation sites are utilized in human to generate the 2 different sized mRNAs (5.5 and 7.5 kb) seen on Northern analysis. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000104826	 This gene is a member of the glycoprotein hormone beta chain family and encodes the beta subunit of luteinizing hormone (LH). Glycoprotein hormones are heterodimers consisting of a common alpha subunit and an unique beta subunit which confers biological specificity. LH is expressed in the pituitary gland and promotes spermatogenesis and ovulation by stimulating the testes and ovaries to synthesize steroids. The genes for the beta chains of chorionic gonadotropin and for luteinizing hormone are contiguous on chromosome 19q13.3. Mutations in this gene are associated with hypogonadism which is characterized by infertility and pseudohermaphroditism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143995	 Homeobox genes, of which the most well-characterized category is represented by the HOX genes, play a crucial role in normal development. In addition, several homeoproteins are involved in neoplasia. This gene encodes a homeobox protein belonging to the TALE ('three amino acid loop extension') family of homeodomain-containing proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000129038	 This gene encodes a member of the lysyl oxidase gene family. The prototypic member of the family is essential to the biogenesis of connective tissue, encoding an extracellular copper-dependent amine oxidase that catalyses the first step in the formation of crosslinks in collagens and elastin. A highly conserved amino acid sequence at the C-terminus end appears to be sufficient for amine oxidase activity, suggesting that each family member may retain this function. The N-terminus is poorly conserved and may impart additional roles in developmental regulation, senescence, tumor suppression, cell growth control, and chemotaxis to each member of the family. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100985	 Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. The enzyme encoded by this gene degrades type IV and V collagens. Studies in rhesus monkeys suggest that the enzyme is involved in IL-8-induced mobilization of hematopoietic progenitor cells from bone marrow, and murine studies suggest a role in tumor-associated tissue remodeling. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000138722	  Multimerin is a massive, soluble protein found in platelets and in the endothelium of blood vessels.  It is comprised of subunits linked by interchain disulfide bonds to form large, variably sized homomultimers.  Multimerin is a factor V/Va-binding protein and may function as a carrier protein for platelet factor V.  It may also have functions as an extracellular matrix or adhesive protein.  Recently, patients with an unusual autosomal-dominant bleeding disorder (factor V Quebec) were found to have a deficiency of platelet multimerin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000071626	 In mammals, the Y chromosome directs the development of the testes and plays an important role in spermatogenesis. A high percentage of infertile men have deletions that map to regions of the Y chromosome. The DAZ (deleted in azoospermia) gene cluster maps to the AZFc region of the Y chromosome and is deleted in many azoospermic and severely oligospermic men. It is thought that the DAZ gene cluster arose from the transposition, amplification, and pruning of the ancestral autosomal gene DAZL also involved in germ cell development and gametogenesis. This gene encodes a RNA-binding protein with two RNP motifs that was originally identified by its interaction with the infertility factors DAZ and DAZL. Two isoforms are encoded by transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000090615	 The Golgi apparatus, which participates in glycosylation and transport of proteins and lipids in the secretory pathway, consists of a series of stacked cisternae (flattened membrane sacs). Interactions between the Golgi and microtubules are thought to be important for the reorganization of the Golgi after it fragments during mitosis. This gene encodes a member of the golgin family of proteins which are localized to the Golgi. Its encoded protein has been postulated to play a role in nuclear transport and Golgi apparatus localization. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000116791	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. The former class is also called phylogenetically-restricted crystallins. This gene encodes a taxon-specific crystallin protein which has NADPH-dependent quinone reductase activity distinct from other known quinone reductases. It lacks alcohol dehydrogenase activity although by similarity it is considered a member of the zinc-containing alcohol dehydrogenase family. Unlike other mammalian species, in humans, lens expression is low. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. One pseudogene is known to exist. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000085733	 This gene is overexpressed in breast cancer and squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck. The encoded protein is localized in the cytoplasm and in areas of the cell-substratum contacts. This gene has two roles: (1) regulating the interactions between components of adherens-type junctions and (2) organizing the cytoskeleton and cell adhesion structures of epithelia and carcinoma cells. During apoptosis, the encoded protein is degraded in a caspase-dependent manner. The aberrant regulation of this gene contributes to tumor cell invasion and metastasis. Three splice variants that encode different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000008256	 This gene encodes a member of the PSCD (pleckstrin homology, Sec7 and coiled-coil domains) family. PSCD family members have identical structural organization that consists of an N-terminal coiled-coil motif, a central Sec7 domain, and a C-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. The coiled-coil motif is involved in homodimerization, the Sec7 domain contains guanine-nucleotide exchange protein (GEP) activity, and the PH domain interacts with phospholipids and is responsible for association of PSCDs with membranes. Members of this family appear to mediate the regulation of protein sorting and membrane trafficking. This encoded protein is involved in the control of Golgi structure and function, and it may have a physiological role in regulating ADP-ribosylation factor protein 6 (ARF) functions, in addition to acting on ARF1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105664	 The protein encoded by this gene is a noncollagenous extracellular matrix (ECM) protein. It consists of five identical glycoprotein subunits, each with EGF-like and calcium-binding (thrombospondin-like) domains. Oligomerization results from formation of a five-stranded coiled coil and disulfides. Binding to other ECM proteins such as collagen appears to depend on divalent cations. Mutations can cause the osteochondrodysplasias pseudochondroplasia (PSACH) and multiple epiphyseal dysplasia (MED). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198900	 This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and alters the topologic states of DNA during transcription. This enzyme catalyzes the transient breaking and rejoining of a single strand of DNA which allows the strands to pass through one another, thus altering the topology of DNA. This gene is localized to chromosome 20 and has pseudogenes which reside on chromosomes 1 and 22. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101150	 This gene encodes a member of the tumor protein D52-like family. These proteins are characterized by an N-terminal coiled-coil motif that is used to form homo- and heteromeric complexes with other tumor protein D52-like proteins. Expression of this gene may be a marker for breast cancer and acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 12. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000108312	 This gene encodes a member of the HMG-box DNA-binding protein family. The encoded protein plays a critical role in ribosomal RNA transcription as a key component of the pre-initiation complex, mediating the recruitment of RNA polymerase I to rDNA promoter regions. The encoded protein may also play important roles in chromatin remodeling and pre-rRNA processing, and its activity is regulated by both phosphorylation and acetylation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on the short arm of chromosomes 3, 11 and X and the long arm of chromosome 11. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000187244	 This gene encodes Lutheran blood group glycoprotein, a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily and a receptor for the extracellular matrix protein, laminin. The protein contains five extracellular immunoglobulin domains, a single transmembrane domain, and a short C-terminal cytoplasmic tail. This protein may play a role in epithelial cell cancer and in vaso-occlusion of red blood cells in sickle cell disease. Polymorphisms in this gene define some of the antigens in the Lutheran system and also the Auberger system. Inactivating variants of this gene result in the recessive Lutheran null phenotype, Lu(a-b-), of the Lutheran blood group. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the LU*0010101 allele. 
ENSG00000100503	 This gene encodes one of the proteins important for centrosomal function. This protein is important for positioning and anchoring the microtubules minus-ends in epithelial cells. Localization of this protein to the centrosome requires three leucine zippers in the central coiled-coil domain. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000203710	 This gene is a member of the receptors of complement activation (RCA) family and is located in the 'cluster RCA' region of chromosome 1. The gene encodes a monomeric single-pass type I membrane glycoprotein found on erythrocytes, leukocytes, glomerular podocytes, and splenic follicular dendritic cells. The Knops blood group system is a system of antigens located on this protein. The protein mediates cellular binding to particles and immune complexes that have activated complement. Decreases in expression of this protein and/or mutations in its gene have been associated with gallbladder carcinomas, mesangiocapillary glomerulonephritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and sarcoidosis. Mutations in this gene have also been associated with a reduction in Plasmodium falciparum rosetting, conferring protection against severe malaria. Alternate allele-specific splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. Additional allele specific isoforms, including a secreted form, have been described but have not been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000152990	 This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. This membrane protein may play a role in tumor angiogenesis through its interaction with the human homolog of the Drosophila disc large tumor suppressor gene. This gene is mapped to a candidate region of chromosome 4 which may be associated with bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]. 
ENSG00000197057	 This gene encodes a protein which contains a death domain. Death domain-containing proteins function in signaling pathways and formation of signaling complexes, as well as the apoptosis pathway. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]. 
ENSG00000123191	 This gene is a member of the P-type cation transport ATPase family and encodes a protein with several membrane-spanning domains, an ATPase consensus sequence, a hinge domain, a phosphorylation site, and at least 2 putative copper-binding sites. This protein functions as a monomer, exporting copper out of the cells, such as the efflux of hepatic copper into the bile. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms with distinct cellular localizations, have been characterized. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Wilson disease (WD). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104738	 The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosome maintenance proteins (MCM) that are essential for the initiation of eukaryotic genome replication. The hexameric protein complex formed by MCM proteins is a key component of the pre-replication complex (pre_RC) and may be involved in the formation of replication forks and in the recruitment of other DNA replication related proteins. The MCM complex consisting of this protein and MCM2, 6 and 7 proteins possesses DNA helicase activity, and may act as a DNA unwinding enzyme. The phosphorylation of this protein by CDC2 kinase reduces the DNA helicase activity and chromatin binding of the MCM complex. This gene is mapped to a region on the chromosome 8 head-to-head next to the PRKDC/DNA-PK, a DNA-activated protein kinase involved in the repair of DNA double-strand breaks. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171124	 The Lewis histo-blood group system comprises a set of fucosylated glycosphingolipids that are synthesized by exocrine epithelial cells and circulate in body fluids. The glycosphingolipids function in embryogenesis, tissue differentiation, tumor metastasis, inflammation, and bacterial adhesion. They are secondarily absorbed to red blood cells giving rise to their Lewis phenotype. This gene is a member of the fucosyltransferase family, which catalyzes the addition of fucose to precursor polysaccharides in the last step of Lewis antigen biosynthesis. It encodes an enzyme with alpha(1,3)-fucosyltransferase and alpha(1,4)-fucosyltransferase activities. Mutations in this gene are responsible for the majority of Lewis antigen-negative phenotypes. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the LE*01.01.01 allele. 
ENSG00000170166	 This gene belongs to the homeobox family of genes. The homeobox genes encode a highly conserved family of transcription factors that play an important role in morphogenesis in all multicellular organisms. Mammals possess four similar homeobox gene clusters, HOXA, HOXB, HOXC and HOXD, located on different chromosomes, consisting of 9 to 11 genes arranged in tandem. This gene is one of several homeobox HOXD genes located at 2q31-2q37 chromosome regions. Deletions that removed the entire HOXD gene cluster or 5' end of this cluster have been associated with severe limb and genital abnormalities. The protein encoded by this gene may play a role in determining positional values in developing limb buds. Alternatively spliced variants have been described but their full length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000047230	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the formation of CTP from UTP with the concomitant deamination of glutamine to glutamate. This protein is the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of cytosine nucleotides, which play an important role in various metabolic processes and provide the precursors necessary for the synthesis of RNA and DNA. Cancer cells that exhibit increased cell proliferation also exhibit an increased activity of this encoded protein. Thus, this protein is an attractive target for selective chemotherapy. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000160882	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the mitochondrial inner membrane and is involved in the conversion of progesterone to cortisol in the adrenal cortex. Mutations in this gene cause congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency. Transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000089289	 The proliferation and differentiation of B cells is dependent upon a B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) complex. Binding of antigens to specific B-cell receptors results in a tyrosine phosphorylation reaction through the BCR complex and leads to multiple signal transduction pathways. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204195	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the diacylglycerol acyltransferase family. It esterifies long chain (wax) alcohols with acyl-CoA-derived fatty acids to produce wax esters. Wax esters are enriched in sebum, suggesting that this enzyme plays a central role in lipid metabolism in skin. Consistent with this observation, this protein is predominantly expressed in the sebaceous gland of the skin. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000165240	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that functions in copper transport across membranes. This protein is localized to the trans-Golgi network, where it is predicted to supply copper to copper-dependent enzymes in the secretory pathway. It relocalizes to the plasma membrane under conditions of elevated extracellular copper, and functions in the efflux of copper from cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with Menkes disease, X-linked cutis laxa, and occipital horn syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000102401	 This gene encodes a member of the ALEX family of proteins which may play a role in tumor suppression. The encoded protein contains a potential N-terminal transmembrane domain and a single Armadillo (arm) repeat. Other proteins containing the arm repeat are involved in development, maintenance of tissue integrity, and tumorigenesis. This gene is closely localized with other family members on the X chromosome. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000002822	 MAD1L1 is a component of the mitotic spindle-assembly checkpoint that prevents the onset of anaphase until all chromosome are properly aligned at the metaphase plate. MAD1L1 functions as a homodimer and interacts with MAD2L1. MAD1L1 may play a role in cell cycle control and tumor suppression. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196557	 This gene encodes a T-type member of the alpha-1 subunit family, a protein in the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization and consist of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. The alpha-1 subunit has 24 transmembrane segments and forms the pore through which ions pass into the cell. There are multiple isoforms of each of the proteins in the complex, either encoded by different genes or the result of alternative splicing of transcripts. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized for the gene described here. Studies suggest certain mutations in this gene lead to childhood absence epilepsy (CAE). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160285	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of (S)-2,3 oxidosqualene to lanosterol. The encoded protein is a member of the terpene cyclase/mutase family and catalyzes the first step in the biosynthesis of cholesterol, steroid hormones, and vitamin D. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000142303	 This gene belongs to the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase domain with thrombospondin type-1 motifs) family of zinc-dependent proteases. ADAMTS proteases are complex secreted enzymes containing a prometalloprotease domain of the reprolysin type attached to an ancillary domain with a highly conserved structure that includes at least one thrombospondin type 1 repeat. They have been demonstrated to have important roles in connective tissue organization, coagulation, inflammation, arthritis, angiogenesis and cell migration. The product of this gene plays a major role in growth and in skin, lens, and heart development. It is also a candidate gene for autosomal recessive Weill-Marchesani syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175564	 Mitochondrial uncoupling proteins (UCP) are members of the larger family of mitochondrial anion carrier proteins (MACP). UCPs separate oxidative phosphorylation from ATP synthesis with energy dissipated as heat, also referred to as the mitochondrial proton leak. UCPs facilitate the transfer of anions from the inner to the outer mitochondrial membrane and the return transfer of protons from the outer to the inner mitochondrial membrane. They also reduce the mitochondrial membrane potential in mammalian cells. The different UCPs have tissue-specific expression; this gene is primarily expressed in skeletal muscle. This gene's protein product is postulated to protect mitochondria against lipid-induced oxidative stress. Expression levels of this gene increase when fatty acid supplies to mitochondria exceed their oxidation capacity and the protein enables the export of fatty acids from mitochondria. UCPs contain the three solcar protein domains typically found in MACPs. Two splice variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000187553	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This enzyme is involved in the catabolism of all-trans- and 9-cis-retinoic acid, and thus contributes to the regulation of retinoic acid levels in cells and tissues. This gene is adjacent to a related gene on chromosome 10q23.33. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157193	 This gene encodes a member of the low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) family. Low density lipoprotein receptors are cell surface proteins that play roles in both signal transduction and receptor-mediated endocytosis of specific ligands for lysosomal degradation. The encoded protein plays a critical role in the migration of neurons during development by mediating Reelin signaling, and also functions as a receptor for the cholesterol transport protein apolipoprotein E. Expression of this gene may be a marker for major depressive disorder. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000126215	 This gene encodes a member of the RecA/Rad51-related protein family that participates in homologous recombination to maintain chromosome stability and repair DNA damage. This gene functionally complements Chinese hamster irs1SF, a repair-deficient mutant that exhibits hypersensitivity to a number of different DNA-damaging agents and is chromosomally unstable. A rare microsatellite polymorphism in this gene is associated with cancer in patients of varying radiosensitivity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164120	 This gene encodes a member of the short-chain nonmetalloenzyme alcohol dehydrogenase protein family. The encoded enzyme is responsible for the metabolism of prostaglandins, which function in a variety of physiologic and cellular processes such as inflammation. Mutations in this gene result in primary autosomal recessive hypertrophic osteoarthropathy and cranioosteoarthropathy. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000146963	 This gene encodes a protein that contains a C2H2-type zinc finger, coiled-coil region and arginine, serine-rich (RS) domain. A similar protein in mouse interacts with sodium channel modifier 1, and the encoded protein may be involved in the recognition of non-consensus splice donor sites in association with the U1 snRNP spliceosomal subunit. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000010270	 This gene encodes a late-endosomal protein that contains a conserved MENTAL (MLN64 N-terminal) domain. The encoded protein binds cholesterol molecules and may play a role in endosomal cholesterol transport through interactions with metastatic lymph node protein 64 (MLN64). [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000184640	 This gene is a member of the septin family involved in cytokinesis and cell cycle control. This gene is a candidate for the ovarian tumor suppressor gene. Mutations in this gene cause hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy, also known as neuritis with brachial predilection. A chromosomal translocation involving this gene on chromosome 17 and the MLL gene on chromosome 11 results in acute myelomonocytic leukemia. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000152254	 This gene encodes an enzyme belonging to the glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit family. These enzymes are part of a multicomponent integral membrane system that catalyzes the hydrolysis of glucose-6-phosphate, the terminal step in gluconeogenic and glycogenolytic pathways, allowing the release of glucose into the bloodstream. The family member encoded by this gene is found in pancreatic islets and does not exhibit phosphohydrolase activity, but it is a major target of cell-mediated autoimmunity in diabetes. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169432	 This gene encodes a voltage-gated sodium channel which plays a significant role in nociception signaling. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary erythermalgia, channelopathy-associated insensitivity to pain, and paroxysmal extreme pain disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000207968	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AL162375.24 and AL138714.9. 
ENSG00000196839	 This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of adenosine to inosine. Various mutations have been described for this gene and have been linked to human diseases. Deficiency in this enzyme causes a form of severe combined immunodeficiency disease (SCID), in which there is dysfunction of both B and T lymphocytes with impaired cellular immunity and decreased production of immunoglobulins, whereas elevated levels of this enzyme have been associated with congenital hemolytic anemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198821	 The protein encoded by this gene is T-cell receptor zeta, which together with T-cell receptor alpha/beta and gamma/delta heterodimers, and with CD3-gamma, -delta and -epsilon, forms the T-cell receptor-CD3 complex. The zeta chain plays an important role in coupling antigen recognition to several intracellular signal-transduction pathways. Low expression of the antigen results in impaired immune response. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198851	 The protein encoded by this gene is the CD3-epsilon polypeptide, which together with CD3-gamma, -delta and -zeta, and the T-cell receptor alpha/beta and gamma/delta heterodimers, forms the T-cell receptor-CD3 complex. This complex plays an important role in coupling antigen recognition to several intracellular signal-transduction pathways. The genes encoding the epsilon, gamma and delta polypeptides are located in the same cluster on chromosome 11. The epsilon polypeptide plays an essential role in T-cell development. Defects in this gene cause immunodeficiency. This gene has also been linked to a susceptibility to type I diabetes in women. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143801	 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with an inherited form of the disease carry mutations in the presenilin proteins (PSEN1 or PSEN2) or the amyloid precursor protein (APP). These disease-linked mutations result in increased production of the longer form of amyloid-beta (main component of amyloid deposits found in AD brains). Presenilins are postulated to regulate APP processing through their effects on gamma-secretase, an enzyme that cleaves APP. Also, it is thought that the presenilins are involved in the cleavage of the Notch receptor such that, they either directly regulate gamma-secretase activity, or themselves act are protease enzymes. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms of PSEN2 have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170477	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. The type II cytokeratins consist of basic or neutral proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains coexpressed during differentiation of simple and stratified epithelial tissues. This type II cytokeratin is specifically expressed in differentiated layers of the mucosal and esophageal epithelia with family member KRT13. Mutations in these genes have been associated with White Sponge Nevus, characterized by oral, esophageal, and anal leukoplakia. The type II cytokeratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q12-q13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112902	 This gene belongs to the semaphorin gene family that encodes membrane proteins containing a semaphorin domain and several thrombospondin type-1 repeats. Members of this family are involved in axonal guidance during neural development. This gene has been implicated as an autism susceptibility gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000078596	 This gene encodes a type II membrane protein that belongs to the ITM2 family. Studies in mouse suggest that it may be involved in osteo- and chondrogenic differentiation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000158813	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type II membrane protein that can be cleaved by furin to produce a secreted form. The encoded protein, which belongs to the tumor necrosis factor family, acts as a homotrimer and may be involved in cell-cell signaling during the development of ectodermal organs. Defects in this gene are a cause of ectodermal dysplasia, anhidrotic, which is also known as X-linked hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia. Several transcript variants encoding many different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132326	 This gene is a member of the Period family of genes and is expressed in a circadian pattern in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the primary circadian pacemaker in the mammalian brain. Genes in this family encode components of the circadian rhythms of locomotor activity, metabolism, and behavior. Circadian expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus continues in constant darkness, and a shift in the light/dark cycle evokes a proportional shift of gene expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. The specific function of this gene is not yet known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138379	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) family and the TGF-beta superfamily. This group of proteins is characterized by a polybasic proteolytic processing site which is cleaved to produce a mature protein containing seven conserved cysteine residues. The members of this family are regulators of cell growth and differentiation in both embryonic and adult tissues. This gene is thought to encode a secreted protein which negatively regulates skeletal muscle growth. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000085999	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the DEAD-like helicase superfamily, and shares similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad54, a protein known to be involved in the homologous recombination and repair of DNA. This protein has been shown to play a role in homologous recombination related repair of DNA double-strand breaks. The binding of this protein to double-strand DNA induces a DNA topological change, which is thought to facilitate homologous DNA paring, and stimulate DNA recombination. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000077782	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) family, where amino acid sequence is highly conserved between members and throughout evolution. FGFR family members differ from one another in their ligand affinities and tissue distribution. A full-length representative protein consists of an extracellular region, composed of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning segment and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain. The extracellular portion of the protein interacts with fibroblast growth factors, setting in motion a cascade of downstream signals, ultimately influencing mitogenesis and differentiation. This particular family member binds both acidic and basic fibroblast growth factors and is involved in limb induction. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Pfeiffer syndrome, Jackson-Weiss syndrome, Antley-Bixler syndrome, osteoglophonic dysplasia, and autosomal dominant Kallmann syndrome 2. Chromosomal aberrations involving this gene are associated with stem cell myeloproliferative disorder and stem cell leukemia lymphoma syndrome. Alternatively spliced variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described; however, not all variants have been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105371	 This gene encodes the Landsteiner-Wiener (LW) blood group antigen(s) that belongs to the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily, and that shares similarity with the intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM) protein family. This ICAM protein contains 2 Ig-like C2-type domains and binds to the leukocyte adhesion LFA-1 protein. The molecular basis of the LW(A)/LW(B) blood group antigens is a single aa variation at position 100; Gln-100=LW(A) and Arg-100=LW(B). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the ICAM4*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000131910	 The protein encoded by this gene is an unusual orphan receptor that contains a putative ligand-binding domain but lacks a conventional DNA-binding domain. The gene product is a member of the nuclear hormone receptor family, a group of transcription factors regulated by small hydrophobic hormones, a subset of which do not have known ligands and are referred to as orphan nuclear receptors. The protein has been shown to interact with retinoid and thyroid hormone receptors, inhibiting their ligand-dependent transcriptional activation. In addition, interaction with estrogen receptors has been demonstrated, leading to inhibition of function. Studies suggest that the protein represses nuclear hormone receptor-mediated transactivation via two separate steps: competition with coactivators and the direct effects of its transcriptional repressor function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115085	 This gene encodes an enzyme belonging to the protein tyrosine kinase family, and it plays a role in T-cell development and lymphocyte activation. This enzyme, which is phosphorylated on tyrosine residues upon T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) stimulation, functions in the initial step of TCR-mediated signal transduction in combination with the Src family kinases, Lck and Fyn. This enzyme is also essential for thymocyte development. Mutations in this gene cause selective T-cell defect, a severe combined immunodeficiency disease characterized by a selective absence of CD8-positive T-cells. Two transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000146648	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane glycoprotein that is a member of the protein kinase superfamily. This protein is a receptor for members of the epidermal growth factor family. EGFR is a cell surface protein that binds to epidermal growth factor. Binding of the protein to a ligand induces receptor dimerization and tyrosine autophosphorylation and leads to cell proliferation. Mutations in this gene are associated with lung cancer. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000047579	 This gene encodes a protein that may play a role in organelle biogenesis associated with melanosomes, platelet dense granules, and lysosomes. A similar protein in mouse is a component of a protein complex termed biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complex 1 (BLOC-1), and binds to alpha- and beta-dystrobrevins, which are components of the dystrophin-associated protein complex (DPC). Mutations in this gene are associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 7. This gene may also be associated with schizophrenia. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159788	 This gene encodes a member of the 'regulator of G protein signaling' (RGS) gene family. The encoded protein may function as a guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase)-activating protein as well as a transcriptional repressor. This protein may play a role in tumorigenesis. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. Other alternative splice variants have been described but their biological nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160695	 Vesicle mediated protein sorting plays an important role in segregation of intracellular molecules into distinct organelles. Genetic studies in yeast have identified more than 40 vacuolar protein sorting (VPS) genes involved in vesicle transport to vacuoles. This gene encodes the human homolog of yeast class C Vps11 protein. The mammalian class C Vps proteins are predominantly associated with late endosomes/lysosomes, and like their yeast counterparts, may mediate vesicle trafficking steps in the endosome/lysosome pathway. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000255529	 This gene (GRINL1A) is part of a complex transcript unit that includes the gene for GRINL1A combined protein (Gcom1). Transcription of this gene occurs at a downstream promoter, with at least three different alternatively spliced variants, grouped together as Gdown for GRINL1A downstream transcripts. The Gcom1 gene uses an upstream promoter for transcription and also has multiple alternatively spliced variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000090932	 This gene encodes a member of the delta protein ligand family. This family functions as Notch ligands that are characterized by a DSL domain, EGF repeats, and a transmembrane domain. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal recessive spondylocostal dysostosis 1. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186810	 This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor with selectivity for three chemokines, termed CXCL9/Mig (monokine induced by interferon-g), CXCL10/IP10 (interferon-g-inducible 10 kDa protein) and CXCL11/I-TAC (interferon-inducible T cell a-chemoattractant). Binding of chemokines to this protein induces cellular responses that are involved in leukocyte traffic, most notably integrin activation, cytoskeletal changes and chemotactic migration. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. One of the isoforms (CXCR3-B) shows high affinity binding to chemokine, CXCL4/PF4 (PMID:12782716). [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000198561	 This gene encodes a member of the Armadillo protein family, which function in adhesion between cells and signal transduction. Multiple translation initiation codons and alternative splicing result in many different isoforms being translated. Not all of the full-length natures of the described transcript variants have been determined. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the neighboring upstream thioredoxin-related transmembrane protein 2 (TMX2) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000170381	 Semaphorins are a large family of conserved secreted and membrane associated proteins which possess a semaphorin (Sema) domain and a PSI domain (found in plexins, semaphorins and integrins) in the N-terminal extracellular portion. Based on sequence and structural similarities, semaphorins are put into eight classes: invertebrates contain classes 1 and 2, viruses have class V, and vertebrates contain classes 3-7. Semaphorins serve as axon guidance ligands via multimeric receptor complexes, some (if not all) containing plexin proteins. This gene encodes a class 4 semaphorin. This gene encodes a class 3 semaphorin. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000136689	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokine family. This protein inhibits the activities of interleukin 1, alpha (IL1A) and interleukin 1, beta (IL1B), and modulates a variety of interleukin 1 related immune and inflammatory responses. This gene and five other closely related cytokine genes form a gene cluster spanning approximately 400 kb on chromosome 2. A polymorphism of this gene is reported to be associated with increased risk of osteoporotic fractures and gastric cancer. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147160	 This gene encodes an enzyme belonging to the diacylglycerol acyltransferase family. This enzyme produces wax esters by the esterification of long chain (or wax) alcohols with acyl-CoA-derived fatty acids. It functions in lipid metabolism in the skin, mostly in undifferentiated peripheral sebocytes. This enzyme may also have acyl-CoA:retinol acyltransferase activities, where it catalyzes the synthesis of diacylglycerols and retinyl esters. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000130175	 This gene encodes the beta-subunit of glucosidase II, an N-linked glycan-processing enzyme in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). This protein is an acidic phospho-protein known to be a substrate for protein kinase C. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the autosomal dominant polycystic liver disease (PCLD). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143632	 The product encoded by this gene belongs to the actin family of proteins, which are highly conserved proteins that play a role in cell motility, structure and integrity. Alpha, beta and gamma actin isoforms have been identified, with alpha actins being a major constituent of the contractile apparatus, while beta and gamma actins are involved in the regulation of cell motility. This actin is an alpha actin that is found in skeletal muscle. Mutations in this gene cause nemaline myopathy type 3, congenital myopathy with excess of thin myofilaments, congenital myopathy with cores, and congenital myopathy with fiber-type disproportion, diseases that lead to muscle fiber defects. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000152642	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of sn-glycerol 3-phosphate to glycerone phosphate. The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm, associated with the plasma membrane, where it binds the sodium channel, voltage-gated, type V, alpha subunit (SCN5A). Defects in this gene are a cause of Brugada syndrome type 2 (BRS2) as well as sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000138081	 This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Fbxs class. It can function as an arginine methyltransferase that symmetrically dimethylates arginine residues, and it acts as an adaptor protein to mediate the neddylation of p53, which leads to the suppression of p53 function. This gene is known to be down-regulated in melanocytes from patients with vitiligo, a skin disorder that results in depigmentation. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with chronic otitis media with effusion and recurrent otitis media (COME/ROM), a hearing loss disorder, and the knockout of the homologous mouse gene results in the deaf mouse mutant Jeff (Jf), a single gene model of otitis media. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000146021	 This gene is ubiquitously expressed and encodes a full-length protein which has an N-terminal BTB domain followed by a BACK domain and six kelch-like repeats in the C-terminus. These kelch-like repeats promote substrate ubiquitination of bound proteins via interaction of the BTB domain with the CUL3 (cullin 3) component of a cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase (CRL) complex. Muatations in this gene cause pseudohypoaldosteronism type IID (PHA2D); a rare Mendelian syndrome featuring hypertension, hyperkalaemia and metabolic acidosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000042781	 This gene encodes a protein that contains laminin EGF motifs, a pentaxin domain, and many fibronectin type III motifs. The protein is found in the basement membrane, and may be important in development and homeostasis of the inner ear and retina. Mutations within this gene have been associated with Usher syndrome type IIa and retinitis pigmentosa. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000124713	 The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of S-adenosyl-L-methionine (along with glycine) to S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine and sarcosine. The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm and acts as a homotetramer. Defects in this gene are a cause of GNMT deficiency (hypermethioninemia). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000180447	 Growth arrest-specific 1 plays a role in growth suppression.  GAS1 blocks entry to S phase and prevents cycling of normal and transformed cells.  Gas1 is a putative tumor suppressor gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000103707	 The protein encoded by this nuclear gene localizes to the mitochondrion, where it catalyzes the formylation of methionyl-tRNA. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000138794	 This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This protein is processed by caspases 7, 8 and 10, and is thought to function as a downstream enzyme in the caspase activation cascade. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants that encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168710	 The protein encoded by this gene interacts with inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor, type 1 and may be involved in the conversion of S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine to L-homocysteine and adenosine. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000085224	 The protein encoded by this gene contains an ATPase/helicase domain, and thus it belongs to the SWI/SNF family of chromatin remodeling proteins. The mutations of this gene are associated with an X-linked mental retardation (XLMR) syndrome most often accompanied by alpha-thalassemia (ATRX) syndrome. These mutations have been shown to cause diverse changes in the pattern of DNA methylation, which may provide a link between chromatin remodeling, DNA methylation, and gene expression in developmental processes. This protein is found to undergo cell cycle-dependent phosphorylation, which regulates its nuclear matrix and chromatin association, and suggests its involvement in the gene regulation at interphase and chromosomal segregation in mitosis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116133	 This gene encodes a flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-dependent oxidoreductase which catalyzes the reduction of the delta-24 double bond of sterol intermediates during cholesterol biosynthesis. The protein contains a leader sequence that directs it to the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Missense mutations in this gene have been associated with desmosterolosis. Also, reduced expression of the gene occurs in the temporal cortex of Alzheimer disease patients and overexpression has been observed in adrenal gland cancer cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171560	 The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha component of fibrinogen, a blood-borne glycoprotein comprised of three pairs of nonidentical polypeptide chains. Following vascular injury, fibrinogen is cleaved by thrombin to form fibrin which is the most abundant component of blood clots. In addition, various cleavage products of fibrinogen and fibrin regulate cell adhesion and spreading, display vasoconstrictor and chemotactic activities, and are mitogens for several cell types. Mutations in this gene lead to several disorders, including dysfibrinogenemia, hypofibrinogenemia, afibrinogenemia and renal amyloidosis. Alternative splicing results in two isoforms which vary in the carboxy-terminus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171564	 The protein encoded by this gene is the beta component of fibrinogen, a blood-borne glycoprotein comprised of three pairs of nonidentical polypeptide chains. Following vascular injury, fibrinogen is cleaved by thrombin to form fibrin which is the most abundant component of blood clots. In addition, various cleavage products of fibrinogen and fibrin regulate cell adhesion and spreading, display vasoconstrictor and chemotactic activities, and are mitogens for several cell types. Mutations in this gene lead to several disorders, including afibrinogenemia, dysfibrinogenemia, hypodysfibrinogenemia and thrombotic tendency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171557	 The protein encoded by this gene is the gamma component of fibrinogen, a blood-borne glycoprotein comprised of three pairs of nonidentical polypeptide chains. Following vascular injury, fibrinogen is cleaved by thrombin to form fibrin which is the most abundant component of blood clots. In addition, various cleavage products of fibrinogen and fibrin regulate cell adhesion and spreading, display vasoconstrictor and chemotactic activities, and are mitogens for several cell types. Mutations in this gene lead to several disorders, including dysfibrinogenemia, hypofibrinogenemia and thrombophilia. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135744	 The protein encoded by this gene, pre-angiotensinogen or angiotensinogen precursor, is expressed in the liver and is cleaved by the enzyme renin in response to lowered blood pressure. The resulting product, angiotensin I, is then cleaved by angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) to generate the physiologically active enzyme angiotensin II. The protein is involved in maintaining blood pressure and in the pathogenesis of essential hypertension and preeclampsia. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to essential hypertension, and can cause renal tubular dysgenesis, a severe disorder of renal tubular development. Defects in this gene have also been associated with non-familial structural atrial fibrillation, and inflammatory bowel disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000075702	 This gene is proposed to play a role in cerebral cortical development. Mutations in this gene have been associated with microencephaly, cortical malformations, and mental retardation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000141401	 This locus encodes an inositol monophosphatase. The encoded protein catalyzes the dephosphoylration of inositol monophosphate and plays an important role in phosphatidylinositol signaling. This locus may be associated with susceptibility to bipolar disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000124214	 Staufen is a member of the family of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-binding proteins involved in the transport and/or localization of mRNAs to different subcellular compartments and/or organelles. These proteins are characterized by the presence of multiple dsRNA-binding domains which are required to bind RNAs having double-stranded secondary structures. The human homologue of staufen encoded by STAU, in addition contains a microtubule- binding domain similar to that of microtubule-associated protein 1B, and binds tubulin. The STAU gene product has been shown to be present in the cytoplasm in association with the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER), implicating this protein in the transport of mRNA via the microtubule network to the RER, the site of translation. Five transcript variants resulting from alternative splicing of STAU gene and encoding three isoforms have been described. Three of these variants encode the same isoform, however, differ in their 5'UTR. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105939	 This gene encodes a CCCH-type zinc finger protein that is thought to prevent infection by retroviruses. Studies of the rat homolog indicate that the protein may primarily function to inhibit viral gene expression and induce an innate immunity to viral infection. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and two variants, each encoding distinct isoforms, are described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160948	 This gene encodes a protein involved in endosomal sorting of cell surface receptors via a multivesicular body/late endosome pathway. The encoded protein is one of the three subunits of the ESCRT-I complex (endosomal complexes required for transport) involved in the sorting of ubiquitinated proteins. The two other subunits of ESCRT-I are vesicular protein sorting 23, also known as tumor susceptibility gene 101 (TSG101), and vesicular protein sorting 37. Two alternative transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. Additional alternative transcripts may exist but the proteins encoded by these transcripts have not been verified experimentally. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186895	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities and are involved in a variety of biological processes including embryonic development, cell growth, morphogenesis, tissue repair, tumor growth and invasion. This gene was identified by its similarity with mouse fgf3/int-2, a proto-oncogene activated in virally induced mammary tumors in the mouse. Frequent amplification of this gene has been found in human tumors, which may be important for neoplastic transformation and tumor progression. Studies of the similar genes in mouse and chicken suggested the role in inner ear formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101888	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a nuclear transport factor 2 (NTF2) domain, which plays an important role in the trafficking of macromolecules, ions, and small molecules between the cytoplasm and nucleus. This protein may also have a role in mRNA nuclear export. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000122136	 This gene encodes a small extracellular protein belonging to the lipocalin superfamily. The protein is thought to transport small, hydrophobic, volatile molecules or odorants through the nasal mucus to olfactory receptors, and may also function as a scavenger of highly concentrated or toxic odors. The protein is expressed as a monomer in the nasal mucus, and can bind diverse types of odorants with a higher affinity for aldehydes and fatty acids. This gene and a highly similar family member are located in a cluster of lipocalin genes on chromosome 9. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000111335	 This gene encodes a member of the 2-5A synthetase family, essential proteins involved in the innate immune response to viral infection. The encoded protein is induced by interferons and uses adenosine triphosphate in 2'-specific nucleotidyl transfer reactions to synthesize 2',5'-oligoadenylates (2-5As). These molecules activate latent RNase L, which results in viral RNA degradation and the inhibition of viral replication. The three known members of this gene family are located in a cluster on chromosome 12. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196262	 This gene encodes a member of the peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase (PPIase) family. PPIases catalyze the cis-trans isomerization of proline imidic peptide bonds in oligopeptides and accelerate the folding of proteins. The encoded protein is a cyclosporin binding-protein and may play a role in cyclosporin A-mediated immunosuppression. The protein can also interact with several HIV proteins, including p55 gag, Vpr, and capsid protein, and has been shown to be necessary for the formation of infectious HIV virions. Multiple pseudogenes that map to different chromosomes have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000144837	 The protein encoded by this gene is a phospholipase that hydrolyzes fatty acids at the sn-1 position of phosphatidylserine and 1-acyl-2-lysophosphatidylserine. This secreted protein hydrolyzes phosphatidylserine in liposomes. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000066455	 The Golgi apparatus, which participates in glycosylation and transport of proteins and lipids in the secretory pathway, consists of a series of stacked cisternae (flattened membrane sacs). Interactions between the Golgi and microtubules are thought to be important for the reorganization of the Golgi after it fragments during mitosis. This gene encodes one of the golgins, a family of proteins localized to the Golgi. This protein is a coiled-coil membrane protein that has been postulated to play a role in vesicle tethering and docking. Translocations involving this gene and the ret proto-oncogene have been found in tumor tissues; the chimeric sequences have been designated RET-II and PTC5. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000108953	 This gene product belongs to the 14-3-3 family of proteins which mediate signal transduction by binding to phosphoserine-containing proteins. This highly conserved protein family is found in both plants and mammals, and this protein is 100% identical to the mouse ortholog. It interacts with CDC25 phosphatases, RAF1 and IRS1 proteins, suggesting its role in diverse biochemical activities related to signal transduction, such as cell division and regulation of insulin sensitivity. It has also been implicated in the pathogenesis of small cell lung cancer. Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other non-protein-coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000150907	 This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors which are characterized by a distinct forkhead domain.  The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, it may play a role in myogenic growth and differentiation. Translocation of this gene with PAX3 has been associated with alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166167	 This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Fbws class; in addition to an F-box, this protein contains multiple WD-40 repeats. The encoded protein mediates degradation of CD4 via its interaction with HIV-1 Vpu. It has also been shown to ubiquitinate phosphorylated NFKBIA (nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells inhibitor, alpha), targeting it for degradation and thus activating nuclear factor kappa-B. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. A related pseudogene exists in chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000178691	 This zinc finger gene has been identified at the breakpoints of a recurrent chromosomal translocation reported in endometrial stromal sarcoma. Recombination of these breakpoints results in the fusion of this gene and JAZF1. The protein encoded by this gene contains a zinc finger domain in the C terminus of the coding region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000163655	 In the de novo synthesis of purine nucleotides, IMP is the branch point metabolite at which point the pathway diverges to the synthesis of either guanine or adenine nucleotides. In the guanine nucleotide pathway, there are 2 enzymes involved in converting IMP to GMP, namely IMP dehydrogenase (IMPD1), which catalyzes the oxidation of IMP to XMP, and GMP synthetase, which catalyzes the amination of XMP to GMP. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160218	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane protein found in the cis-Golgi complex. The encoded protein is part of the multisubunit transport protein particle (TRAPP) complex and may be involved in vesicular transport from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi. Mutations in this gene could be responsible for the Unverricht-Lundborg type of progressive myoclonus epilepsy, or for autoimmune polyglandular disease type 1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114450	 Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins), which integrate signals between receptors and effector proteins, are composed of an alpha, a beta, and a gamma subunit. These subunits are encoded by families of related genes. This gene encodes a beta subunit. Beta subunits are important regulators of alpha subunits, as well as of certain signal transduction receptors and effectors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112096	 This gene is a member of the iron/manganese superoxide dismutase family. It encodes a mitochondrial protein that forms a homotetramer and binds one manganese ion per subunit. This protein binds to the superoxide byproducts of oxidative phosphorylation and converts them to hydrogen peroxide and diatomic oxygen. Mutations in this gene have been associated with idiopathic cardiomyopathy (IDC), premature aging, sporadic motor neuron disease, and cancer. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105854	 This gene encodes a member of the paraoxonase gene family, which includes three known members located adjacent to each other on the long arm of chromosome 7. The encoded protein is ubiquitously expressed in human tissues, membrane-bound, and may act as a cellular antioxidant, protecting cells from oxidative stress. Hydrolytic activity against acylhomoserine lactones, important bacterial quorum-sensing mediators, suggests the encoded protein may also play a role in defense responses to pathogenic bacteria. Mutations in this gene may be associated with vascular disease and a number of quantitative phenotypes related to diabetes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110436	 This gene encodes a member of a family of solute transporter proteins. The membrane-bound protein is the principal transporter that clears the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate from the extracellular space at synapses in the central nervous system. Glutamate clearance is necessary for proper synaptic activation and to prevent neuronal damage from excessive activation of glutamate receptors. Mutations in and decreased expression of this protein are associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000010704	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein that is similar to MHC class I-type proteins and associates with beta2-microglobulin (beta2M). It is thought that this protein functions to regulate iron absorption by regulating the interaction of the transferrin receptor with transferrin. The iron storage disorder, hereditary haemochromatosis, is a recessive genetic disorder that results from defects in this gene. At least nine alternatively spliced variants have been described for this gene. Additional variants have been found but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000069535	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the flavin monoamine oxidase family. It is a enzyme located in the mitochondrial outer membrane. It catalyzes the oxidative deamination of biogenic and xenobiotic amines and plays an important role in the metabolism of neuroactive and vasoactive amines in the central nervous sysytem and peripheral tissues. This protein preferentially degrades benzylamine and phenylethylamine. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148600	 This gene is a member of the cadherin superfamily of calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion molecules. This non-classical cadherin appears to be exclusively expressed in the mitral and tufted cells in the main and accessory olfactory bulbs of the brain, suggesting a possible role in the formation and maintenance of neuronal networks. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoform have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000135226	 This gene encodes a member of the uridine diphosphoglucuronosyltransferase protein family. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the transfer of glucuronic acid from uridine diphosphoglucuronic acid to a diverse array of substrates including steroid hormones and lipid-soluble drugs. This process, known as glucuronidation, is an intermediate step in the metabolism of steroids. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. While both isoforms are targeted to the endoplasmic reticulum, only the longer isoform appears to be active. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000106052	 This gene encodes a HTLV-1 tax1 binding protein. The encoded protein interacts with TNFAIP3, and inhibits TNF-induced apoptosis by mediating the TNFAIP3 anti-apoptotic activity. Degradation of this protein by caspase-3-like family proteins is associated with apoptosis induced by TNF. This protein may also have a role in the inhibition of inflammatory signaling pathways. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000096063	 This gene encodes a serine/arginine protein kinase specific for the SR (serine/arginine-rich domain) family of splicing factors. The protein localizes to the nucleus and the cytoplasm. It is thought to play a role in regulation of both constitutive and alternative splicing by regulating intracellular localization of splicing factors. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Additional alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene, but their full length nature have not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000167634	 This gene encodes a member of the NACHT, leucine rich repeat, and PYD containing (NLRP) protein family. It has an N-terminal pyrin domain, followed by a NACHT domain, a NACHT-associated domain (NAD), and a C-terminal leucine-rich repeat (LRR) region. NLRP proteins are implicated in the activation of proinflammatory caspases through multiprotein complexes called inflammasomes. This gene may act as a feedback regulator of caspase-1-dependent interleukin 1-beta secretion. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000085063	 This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein that regulates complement-mediated cell lysis, and it is involved in lymphocyte signal transduction. This protein is a potent inhibitor of the complement membrane attack complex, whereby it binds complement C8 and/or C9 during the assembly of this complex, thereby inhibiting the incorporation of multiple copies of C9 into the complex, which is necessary for osmolytic pore formation. This protein also plays a role in signal transduction pathways in the activation of T cells. Mutations in this gene cause CD59 deficiency, a disease resulting in hemolytic anemia and thrombosis, and which causes cerebral infarction. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode the same protein, have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102302	 This gene encodes a protein that contains Dbl (DH) and pleckstrin (PH) homology domains and is similar to the Rho family of small GTP-binding proteins. The encoded protein specifically binds to the Rho family GTPase Cdc42Hs and can stimulate the GDP-GTP exchange of the isoprenylated form of Cdc42Hs. It also stimulates the mitogen activated protein kinase cascade leading to c-Jun kinase SAPK/JNK1 activation. Defects in this gene are the cause of faciogenital dysplasia and X-linked mental retardation, syndromatic 16.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000158887	 This gene encodes a major structural protein of peripheral myelin. Mutations in this gene result in the autosomal dominant form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1 and other polyneuropathies. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000068366	 The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzyme A ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellular localization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convert free long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters, and thereby play a key role in lipid biosynthesis and fatty acid degradation. This isozyme preferentially utilizes arachidonate as substrate. The absence of this enzyme may contribute to the mental retardation or Alport syndrome. Alternative splicing of this gene generates 2 transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124205	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the endothelin family. Endothelins are endothelium-derived vasoactive peptides involved in a variety of biological functions. The active form of this protein is a 21 amino acid peptide processed from the precursor protein. The active peptide is a ligand for endothelin receptor type B (EDNRB). The interaction of this endothelin with EDNRB is essential for development of neural crest-derived cell lineages, such as melanocytes and enteric neurons. Mutations in this gene and EDNRB have been associated with Hirschsprung disease (HSCR) and Waardenburg syndrome (WS), which are congenital disorders involving neural crest-derived cells. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding three distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000141627	 This gene encodes a protein which is necessary for normal skeletal development and brain function. Mutations in this gene are associated with two types of recessive osteochondrodysplasia, Dyggve-Melchior-Clausen (DMC) dysplasia and Smith-McCort (SMC) dysplasia, which involve both skeletal defects and mental retardation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000008710	 This gene encodes a member of the polycystin protein family. The encoded glycoprotein contains a large N-terminal extracellular region, multiple transmembrane domains and a cytoplasmic C-tail. It is an integral membrane protein that functions as a regulator of calcium permeable cation channels and intracellular calcium homoeostasis. It is also involved in cell-cell/matrix interactions and may modulate G-protein-coupled signal-transduction pathways. It plays a role in renal tubular development, and mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease type 1 (ADPKD1). ADPKD1 is characterized by the growth of fluid-filled cysts that replace normal renal tissue and result in end-stage renal failure. Splice variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. Also, six pseudogenes, closely linked in a known duplicated region on chromosome 16p, have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000171766	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial enzyme that belongs to the amidinotransferase family. This enzyme is involved in creatine biosynthesis, whereby it catalyzes the transfer of a guanido group from L-arginine to glycine, resulting in guanidinoacetic acid, the immediate precursor of creatine. Mutations in this gene cause arginine:glycine amidinotransferase deficiency, an inborn error of creatine synthesis characterized by mental retardation, language impairment, and behavioral disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000064655	 This gene encodes a member of the eyes absent (EYA) family of proteins. The encoded protein may be post-translationally modified and may play a role in eye development. A similar protein in mice can act as a transcriptional activator. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, but the full-length natures of all of these variants have not yet been determined. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000085377	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytosolic prolyl endopeptidase that cleaves peptide bonds on the C-terminal side of prolyl residues within peptides that are up to approximately 30 amino acids long. Prolyl endopeptidases have been reported to be involved in the maturation and degradation of peptide hormones and neuropeptides. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000146733	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a subfamily of the phosphotransferases. This encoded enzyme is responsible for the third and last step in L-serine formation. It catalyzes magnesium-dependent hydrolysis of L-phosphoserine and is also involved in an exchange reaction between L-serine and L-phosphoserine. Deficiency of this protein is thought to be linked to Williams syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000007171	 Nitric oxide is a reactive free radical which acts as a biologic mediator in several processes, including neurotransmission and antimicrobial and antitumoral activities. This gene encodes a nitric oxide synthase which is expressed in liver and is inducible by a combination of lipopolysaccharide and certain cytokines. Three related pseudogenes are located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137672	 The protein encoded by this gene forms a receptor-activated calcium channel in the cell membrane. The channel is activated by diacylglycerol and is thought to be under the control of a phosphatidylinositol second messenger system. Activation of this channel occurs independently of protein kinase C and is not triggered by low levels of intracellular calcium. Defects in this gene are a cause of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis 2 (FSGS2). [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000117586	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This cytokine is a ligand for receptor TNFRSF4/OX4. It is found to be involved in T cell antigen-presenting cell (APC) interactions. In surface Ig- and CD40-stimulated B cells, this cytokine along with CD70 has been shown to provide CD28-independent costimulatory signals to T cells. This protein and its receptor are reported to directly mediate adhesion of activated T cells to vascular endothelial cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163554	 Spectrin is an actin crosslinking and molecular scaffold protein that links the plasma membrane to the actin cytoskeleton, and functions in the determination of cell shape, arrangement of transmembrane proteins, and organization of organelles. It is a tetramer made up of alpha-beta dimers linked in a head-to-head arrangement. This gene is one member of a family of alpha-spectrin genes. The encoded protein is primarily composed of 22 spectrin repeats which are involved in dimer formation. It forms weaker tetramer interactions than non-erythrocytic alpha spectrin, which may increase the plasma membrane elasticity and deformability of red blood cells. Mutations in this gene result in a variety of hereditary red blood cell disorders, including elliptocytosis type 2, pyropoikilocytosis, and spherocytic hemolytic anemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175567	 Mitochondrial uncoupling proteins (UCP) are members of the larger family of mitochondrial anion carrier proteins (MACP). UCPs separate oxidative phosphorylation from ATP synthesis with energy dissipated as heat, also referred to as the mitochondrial proton leak. UCPs facilitate the transfer of anions from the inner to the outer mitochondrial membrane and the return transfer of protons from the outer to the inner mitochondrial membrane. They also reduce the mitochondrial membrane potential in mammalian cells. Tissue specificity occurs for the different UCPs and the exact methods of how UCPs transfer H+/OH- are not known. UCPs contain the three homologous protein domains of MACPs. This gene is expressed in many tissues, with the greatest expression in skeletal muscle. It is thought to play a role in nonshivering thermogenesis, obesity and diabetes. Chromosomal order is 5'-UCP3-UCP2-3'. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000122121	 Aminopeptidase P is a hydrolase specific for N-terminal imido bonds, which are common to several collagen degradation products, neuropeptides, vasoactive peptides, and cytokines. Structurally, the enzyme is a member of the 'pita bread fold' family and occurs in mammalian tissues in both soluble and GPI-anchored membrane-bound forms.  A membrane-bound and soluble form of this enzyme have been identified as products of two separate genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147050	 This gene is located on the X chromosome and is the corresponding locus to a Y-linked gene which encodes a tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) protein. The encoded protein of this gene contains a JmjC-domain and catalyzes the demethylation of tri/dimethylated histone H3. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000066084	 This gene encodes a member of the disco-interacting protein homolog 2 protein family. The encoded protein contains a binding site for the transcriptional regulator DNA methyltransferase 1 associated protein 1 as well as AMP-binding sites. The presence of these sites suggests that the encoded protein may participate in DNA methylation. This gene is located near a folate-sensitive fragile site, and CGG-repeat expansion in the promoter of this gene which affects transcription has been detected in individuals containing this fragile site on chromosome 12. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000188917	 This gene encodes a homolog of the TRM2 gene in S. cerevisiae. The yeast gene encodes a tRNA methyltransferase that plays a role in tRNA maturation. The yeast protein also has endo-exonuclease activity and may be involved in DNA double strand break repair. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcripts encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000147003	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that is important for trafficking amino acid transporters to the apical brush border of proximal tubules. It also plays a role in controlling insulin exocytosis by regulating formation of the SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive-factor attachment protein receptor) complex in pancreatic beta cells. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000170925	 This gene is similar to a mouse gene that is expressed in the testis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184254	 Aldehyde dehydrogenase isozymes are thought to play a major role in the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism and lipid peroxidation. The enzyme encoded by this gene uses retinal as a substrate, either in a free or cellular retinol-binding protein form. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165583	 The product of this gene belongs to the family of highly homologous synovial sarcoma X (SSX) breakpoint proteins. These proteins may function as transcriptional repressors. They are also capable of eliciting spontaneously humoral and cellular immune responses in cancer patients, and are potentially useful targets in cancer vaccine-based immunotherapy. SSX1, SSX2 and SSX4 genes have been involved in the t(X;18) translocation characteristically found in all synovial sarcomas. This gene appears not to be involved in this type of chromosome translocation. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126752	 The product of this gene belongs to the family of highly homologous synovial sarcoma X (SSX) breakpoint proteins. These proteins may function as transcriptional repressors. They are also capable of eliciting spontaneously humoral and cellular immune responses in cancer patients, and are potentially useful targets in cancer vaccine-based immunotherapy. SSX1, SSX2 and SSX4 genes have been involved in the t(X;18) translocation characteristically found in all synovial sarcomas. This translocation results in the fusion of the synovial sarcoma translocation gene on chromosome 18 to one of the SSX genes on chromosome X. The encoded hybrid proteins are probably responsible for transforming activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000059573	 This gene is a member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase family and encodes a bifunctional ATP- and NADPH-dependent mitochondrial enzyme with both gamma-glutamyl kinase and gamma-glutamyl phosphate reductase activities. The encoded protein catalyzes the reduction of glutamate to delta1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate, a critical step in the de novo biosynthesis of proline, ornithine and arginine. Mutations in this gene lead to hyperammonemia, hypoornithinemia, hypocitrullinemia, hypoargininemia and hypoprolinemia and may be associated with neurodegeneration, cataracts and connective tissue diseases. Alternatively spliced transcript variants, encoding different isoforms, have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135702	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Gal/GalNAc/GlcNAc 6-O-sulfotransferase (GST) family, members of which catalyze the transfer of sulfate to position 6 of galactose (Gal), N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc), or N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) residues within proteoglycans, and sulfation of O-linked sugars of mucin-type acceptors. Carbohydrate sulfation plays a critical role in many biologic processes. This gene is predominantly expressed in colon and small intestine. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000186049	 Keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into epithelial keratins and hair keratins. This gene encodes a protein that is expressed in the inner root sheath of hair follicles. The type II keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q13.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000027075	 Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases that can be activated by calcium and the second messenger diacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways. PKC family members also serve as major receptors for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promoters. Each member of the PKC family has a specific expression profile and is believed to play a distinct role in cells. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the PKC family members. It is a calcium-independent and phospholipids-dependent protein kinase. It is predominantly expressed in epithelial tissues and has been shown to reside specifically in the cell nucleus. This protein kinase can regulate keratinocyte differentiation by activating the MAP kinase MAPK13 (p38delta)-activated protein kinase cascade that targets CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (CEBPA). It is also found to mediate the transcription activation of the transglutaminase 1 (TGM1) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000121057	 The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. The encoded protein binds to type I and type II regulatory subunits of PKA and anchors them to the mitochondrion. This protein is speculated to be involved in the cAMP-dependent signal transduction pathway and in directing RNA to a specific cellular compartment. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170465	 Keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into epithelial keratins and hair keratins. The type II keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000026025	 This gene encodes a member of the intermediate filament family. Intermediate filamentents, along with microtubules and actin microfilaments, make up the cytoskeleton. The protein encoded by this gene is responsible for maintaining cell shape, integrity of the cytoplasm, and stabilizing cytoskeletal interactions. It is also involved in the immune response, and controls the transport of low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-derived cholesterol from a lysosome to the site of esterification. It functions as an organizer of a number of critical proteins involved in attachment, migration, and cell signaling. Mutations in this gene causes a dominant, pulverulent cataract.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000133142	 This gene encodes a member of the transcription elongation factor A (SII)-like (TCEAL) gene family. Members of this family contain TFA domains and may function as nuclear phosphoproteins that modulate transcription in a promoter context-dependent manner. Multiple family members are located on the X chromosome. Alternative splicing occurs for this gene; however, the full-length nature of all transcript variants has not yet been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100697	 This gene encodes a protein possessing an RNA helicase motif containing a DEXH box in its amino terminus and an RNA motif in the carboxy terminus. The encoded protein functions as a ribonuclease and is required by the RNA interference and small temporal RNA (stRNA) pathways to produce the active small RNA component that represses gene expression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000081479	 The protein encoded by this gene, low density lipoprotein-related protein 2 (LRP2) or megalin, is a multi-ligand endocytic receptor that is expressed in many different tissues but primarily in absorptive epithilial tissues such as the kidney. This glycoprotein has a large amino-terminal extracellular domain, a single transmembrane domain, and a short carboxy-terminal cytoplasmic tail. The extracellular ligand-binding-domains bind diverse macromolecules including albumin, apolipoproteins B and E, and lipoprotein lipase. The LRP2 protein is critical for the reuptake of numerous ligands, including lipoproteins, sterols, vitamin-binding proteins, and hormones. This protein also has a role in cell-signaling; extracellular ligands include parathyroid horomones and the morphogen sonic hedgehog while cytosolic ligands include MAP kinase scaffold proteins and JNK interacting proteins. Recycling of this membrane receptor is regulated by phosphorylation of its cytoplasmic domain. Mutations in this gene cause Donnai-Barrow syndrome (DBS) and facio-oculoacoustico-renal syndrome (FOAR).[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000160791	 This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors. This protein is expressed by T cells and macrophages, and is known to be an important co-receptor for macrophage-tropic virus, including HIV, to enter host cells. Defective alleles of this gene have been associated with the HIV infection resistance. The ligands of this receptor include monocyte chemoattractant protein 2 (MCP-2), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 beta (MIP-1 beta) and regulated on activation normal T expressed and secreted protein (RANTES). Expression of this gene was also detected in a promyeloblastic cell line, suggesting that this protein may play a role in granulocyte lineage proliferation and differentiation. This gene is located at the chemokine receptor gene cluster region. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130592	 This gene encodes an intracellular F-actin binding protein. The protein is expressed in lymphocytes, neutrophils, macrophages, and endothelium and may regulate neutrophil motility, adhesion to fibrinogen matrix proteins, and transendothelial migration. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137648	 This gene encodes a member of the serine protease family. Serine proteases are known to be involved in a variety of biological processes, whose malfunction often leads to human diseases and disorders. This gene was identified as a gene overexpressed in pancreatic carcinoma. The encoded protein is membrane bound with a N-terminal anchor sequence and a glycosylated extracellular region containing the serine protease domain. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170484	 Keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into epithelial keratins and hair keratins. This protein belongs to a family of keratins that are specifically expressed in the inner root sheath of hair follicles.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000163599	 This gene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily and encodes a protein which transmits an inhibitory signal to T cells. The protein contains a V domain, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic tail. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. The membrane-bound isoform functions as a homodimer interconnected by a disulfide bond, while the soluble isoform functions as a monomer. Mutations in this gene have been associated with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, Graves disease, Hashimoto thyroiditis, celiac disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, thyroid-associated orbitopathy, and other autoimmune diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188467	 This gene is a member of the potassium-dependent sodium/calcium exchanger family and encodes an intracellular membrane protein with 2 large hydrophilic loops and 2 sets of multiple transmembrane-spanning segments. Sequence variation in this gene has been associated with differences in skin pigmentation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159723	 This gene encodes an antagonist of the melanocortin-3 and melanocortin-4 receptor. It appears to regulate hypothalamic control of feeding behavior via melanocortin receptor and/or intracellular calcium regulation, and thus plays a role in weight homeostasis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with late on-set obesity. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000167654	 This gene encodes a neuron-restricted protein that contains a CRAL-TRIO motif common to proteins that bind small lipophilic molecules. Mutations in this gene are associated with cerebellar ataxia, Cayman type. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000181019	 This gene is a member of the NAD(P)H dehydrogenase (quinone) family and encodes a cytoplasmic 2-electron reductase. This FAD-binding protein forms homodimers and reduces quinones to hydroquinones. This protein's enzymatic activity prevents the one electron reduction of quinones that results in the production of radical species. Mutations in this gene have been associated with tardive dyskinesia (TD), an increased risk of hematotoxicity after exposure to benzene, and susceptibility to various forms of cancer. Altered expression of this protein has been seen in many tumors and is also associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166947	 Erythrocyte membrane protein band 4.2 is an ATP-binding protein which may regulate the association of protein 3 with ankyrin. It probably has a role in erythrocyte shape and mechanical property regulation. Mutations in the EPB42 gene are associated with recessive spherocytic elliptocytosis and recessively transmitted hereditary hemolytic anemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000206503	 HLA-A belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues. This class I molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain and a light chain (beta-2 microglobulin). The heavy chain is anchored in the membrane. Class I molecules play a central role in the immune system by presenting peptides derived from the endoplasmic reticulum lumen. They are expressed in nearly all cells. The heavy chain is approximately 45 kDa and its gene contains 8 exons. Exon 1 encodes the leader peptide, exons 2 and 3 encode the alpha1 and alpha2 domains, which both bind the peptide, exon 4 encodes the alpha3 domain, exon 5 encodes the transmembrane region, and exons 6 and 7 encode the cytoplasmic tail. Polymorphisms within exon 2 and exon 3 are responsible for the peptide binding specificity of each class one molecule. Typing for these polymorphisms is routinely done for bone marrow and kidney transplantation. Hundreds of HLA-A alleles have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112936	  C7 is a component of the complement system.  It participates in the formation of Membrane Attack Complex (MAC). People with C7 deficiency are prone to bacterial infection. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116127	 This gene encodes a protein containing a large tandem-repeat domain. The mouse ortholog of this gene has been shown to function in ciliogenesis in inner medullary collecting duct cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Alstrom syndrome. Alternative splice variants have been described but their full length sequences have not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000164175	 This gene encodes a transporter protein that mediates melanin synthesis. The protein is expressed in a high percentage of melanoma cell lines. Mutations in this gene are a cause of oculocutaneous albinism type 4, and polymorphisms in this gene are associated with variations in skin and hair color. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000007062	 This gene encodes a pentaspan transmembrane glycoprotein. The protein localizes to membrane protrusions and is often expressed on adult stem cells, where it is thought to function in maintaining stem cell properties by suppressing differentiation. Mutations in this gene have been shown to result in retinitis pigmentosa and Stargardt disease. Expression of this gene is also associated with several types of cancer. This gene is expressed from at least five alternative promoters that are expressed in a tissue-dependent manner. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000129535	 This gene encodes a basic motif-leucine zipper transcription factor of the Maf subfamily. The encoded protein is conserved among vertebrates and is a critical intrinsic regulator of photoceptor development and function. Mutations in this gene have been associated with retinitis pigmentosa and retinal degenerative diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182326	 This gene encodes a serine protease, which is a major constituent of the human complement subcomponent C1. C1s associates with two other complement components C1r and C1q in order to yield the first component of the serum complement system. Defects in this gene are the cause of selective C1s deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000073067	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000021461	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This enzyme has a low level of testosterone hydroxylase activity. Although it bears homology to some drug-metabolizing cytochrome P450s, it is unknown whether the enzyme is also involved in xenobiotic metabolism. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 7q21.1. Alternate splicing of this gene results in three transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186104	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This enzyme is a microsomal vitamin D hydroxylase that converts vitamin D into the active ligand for the vitamin D receptor. A mutation in this gene has been associated with selective 25-hydroxyvitamin D deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162365	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 1p33. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197446	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is known to dehydrogenate 3-methylindole, an endogenous toxin derived from the fermentation of tryptophan, as well as xenobiotic substrates such as naphthalene and ethoxycoumarin. This gene is part of a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105486	 LIG1 encodes DNA ligase I, with functions in DNA replication and the base excision repair process.  Mutations in LIG1 that lead to DNA ligase I deficiency result in immunodeficiency and increased sensitivity to DNA-damaging agents. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000174405	 The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA ligase that joins single-strand breaks in a double-stranded polydeoxynucleotide in an ATP-dependent reaction. This protein is essential for V(D)J recombination and DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair through nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ). This protein forms a complex with the X-ray repair cross complementing protein 4 (XRCC4), and further interacts with the DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK). Both XRCC4 and DNA-PK are known to be required for NHEJ. The crystal structure of the complex formed by this protein and XRCC4 has been resolved. Defects in this gene are the cause of LIG4 syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183161	 The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2). The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementation group F. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106258	 This gene,CYP3A5, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by glucocorticoids and some pharmacological agents. The enzyme metabolizes drugs such as nifedipine and cyclosporine as well as the steroid hormones testosterone, progesterone and androstenedione. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 7q21.1. This cluster includes a pseudogene, CYP3A5P1, which is very similar to CYP3A5. This similarity has caused some difficulty in determining whether cloned sequences represent the gene or the pseudogene. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000142973	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. In rodents, the homologous protein has been shown to metabolize certain carcinogens; however, the specific function of the human protein has not been determined. Two transcript variants encoding slightly different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000243978	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AC000113.1. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000102385	 Members of the dystrophin family of proteins perform a critical role in the maintenance of membrane-associated complexes at points of intercellular contact in vertebrate cells. The protein encoded by this gene is predicted to resemble certain short C-terminal isoforms of dystrophin and dystrophin-related protein 1 (DRP1 or utrophin). DRP2 is expressed principally in the brain and spinal cord. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000071889	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AF277315.6 and BX664739.3. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000109220	 This gene encodes a member of the CHIC family of proteins. The encoded protein contains a cysteine-rich hydrophobic (CHIC) motif, and is localized to vesicular structures and the plasma membrane. This gene is associated with some cases of acute myeloid leukemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102195	 This gene product belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. Even though this protein shares similarity with the melatonin receptors, it does not bind melatonin, however, it inhibits melatonin receptor 1A function through heterodimerization. Polymorphic variants of this gene have been associated with bipolar affective disorder in women. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000160145	 Huntington's disease (HD), a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of striatal neurons, is caused by an expansion of a polyglutamine tract in the HD protein huntingtin. This gene encodes a protein that interacts with the huntingtin-associated protein 1, which is a huntingtin binding protein that may function in vesicle trafficking. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169249	 This gene encodes an essential splicing factor. The encoded protein associates with the U2 auxiliary factor heterodimer, which is required for the recognition of a functional 3' splice site in pre-mRNA splicing, and may play a role in network interactions during spliceosome assembly. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133256	 Photon absorption triggers a signaling cascade in rod photoreceptors that activates cGMP phosphodiesterase (PDE), resulting in the rapid hydrolysis of cGMP, closure of cGMP-gated cation channels, and hyperpolarization of the cell. PDE is a peripheral membrane heterotrimeric enzyme made up of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits. This gene encodes the beta subunit. Mutations in this gene result in retinitis pigmentosa and autosomal dominant congenital stationary night blindness. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000157782	 Calcium binding proteins are an important component of calcium mediated cellular signal transduction. This gene encodes a protein that belongs to a subfamily of calcium binding proteins which share similarity to calmodulin. The protein encoded by this gene regulates the gating of voltage-gated calcium ion channels. This protein inhibits calcium-dependent inactivation and supports calcium-dependent facilitation of ion channels containing voltage-dependent L-type calcium channel subunit alpha-1C. This protein also regulates calcium-dependent activity of inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptors, P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channels, and transient receptor potential channel TRPC5. This gene is predominantly expressed in retina and brain. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding disinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000116785	 The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted protein, which belongs to the complement factor H-related protein family. It binds to heparin, and may be involved in complement regulation. Mutations in this gene are associated with decreased risk of age-related macular degeneration, and with an increased risk of atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000185527	 This gene encodes the gamma subunit of cyclic GMP-phosphodiesterase, which is composed of alpha- and beta- catalytic subunits and two identical, inhibitory gamma subunits. This gene is expressed in rod photoreceptors and functions in the phototransduction signaling cascade. It is also expressed in a variety of other tissues, and has been shown to regulate the c-Src protein kinase and G-protein-coupled receptor kinase 2. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000149311	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the PI3/PI4-kinase family. This protein is an important cell cycle checkpoint kinase that phosphorylates; thus, it functions as a regulator of a wide variety of downstream proteins, including tumor suppressor proteins p53 and BRCA1, checkpoint kinase CHK2, checkpoint proteins RAD17 and RAD9, and DNA repair protein NBS1. This protein and the closely related kinase ATR are thought to be master controllers of cell cycle checkpoint signaling pathways that are required for cell response to DNA damage and for genome stability. Mutations in this gene are associated with ataxia telangiectasia, an autosomal recessive disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000169372	 The protein encoded by this gene is a death domain (CARD/DD)-containing protein and has been shown to induce cell apoptosis. Through its CARD domain, this protein interacts with, and thus recruits, caspase 2/ICH1 to the cell death signal transduction complex that includes tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1A), RIPK1/RIP kinase, and numbers of other CARD domain-containing proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196660	 This gene is highly expressed in the liver and is inducible by manganese. Its protein product appears to be critical in maintaining manganese levels, and has higher specificity for manganese than zinc. Loss of function mutations appear to result in a pleomorphic phenotype, including dystonia and adult-onset parkinsonism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000007255	 This gene encodes a component of the trafficking protein particle complex, which tethers transport vesicles to the cis-Golgi membrane. Loss of expression of the related gene in mouse affects coat and eye pigmentation, suggesting that the encoded protein may be involved in melanosome biogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000110717	 This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase, or Complex I, a multimeric enzyme of the respiratory chain responsible for NADH oxidation, ubiquinone reduction, and the ejection of protons from mitochondria. The encoded protein is involved in the binding of two of the six to eight iron-sulfur clusters of Complex I and, as such, is required in the electron transfer process. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Leigh syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000150768	 This gene encodes component E2 of the multi-enzyme pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC). PDC resides in the inner mitochondrial membrane and catalyzes the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl coenzyme A. The protein product of this gene, dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase, accepts acetyl groups formed by the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate and transfers them to coenzyme A. Dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase is the antigen for antimitochondrial antibodies. These autoantibodies are present in nearly 95% of patients with the autoimmune liver disease primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). In PBC, activated T lymphocytes attack and destroy epithelial cells in the bile duct where this protein is abnormally distributed and overexpressed. PBC enventually leads to cirrhosis and liver failure. Mutations in this gene are also a cause of pyruvate dehydrogenase E2 deficiency which causes primary lactic acidosis in infancy and early childhood. 
ENSG00000203859	 The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the oxidative conversion of delta(5)-ene-3-beta-hydroxy steroid, and the oxidative conversion of ketosteroids. It plays a crucial role in the biosynthesis of all classes of hormonal steroids. This gene is predominantly expressed in the adrenals and the gonads. Mutations in this gene are associated with 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, type II, deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000136653	 This gene is a member of the Ras association domain family. It functions as a tumor suppressor, and is inactivated in a variety of cancers. The encoded protein localizes to centrosomes and microtubules, and associates with the GTP-activated forms of Ras, Rap1, and several other Ras-like small GTPases. The protein regulates lymphocyte adhesion and suppresses cell growth in response to activated Rap1 or Ras. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133961	 The protein encoded by this gene plays a role in the determination of cell fates during development. The encoded protein, whose degradation is induced in a proteasome-dependent manner by MDM2, is a membrane-bound protein that has been shown to associate with EPS15, LNX1, and NOTCH1. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126890	 This gene encodes an autoimmunogenic tumor antigen that belongs to the ESO/LAGE family of cancer-testis antigens. This protein is expressed in a wide array of cancers including melanoma, breast cancer, bladder cancer and prostate cancer. This protein is also expressed in normal testis tissue. An alternative open reading frame product of this gene has been described in PMID 10399963. This alternate protein, termed CAMEL, is a tumor antigen that is recognized by melanoma-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000049769	 This gene encodes a protein that has been identified as one of several type-1 protein phosphatase (PP1) regulatory subunits. One or two of these subunits, together with the well-conserved catalytic subunit, can form the PP1 holoenzyme, where the regulatory subunit functions to regulate substrate specificity and/or targeting to a particular cellular compartment. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000144535	 The protein encoded by this gene is similar in sequence to 3'/5' exonucleolytic subunits of the RNA exosome. The exosome is a large multimeric ribonucleotide complex responsible for degrading various RNA substrates. Several transcript variants, some protein-coding and some not, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000105993	 This gene encodes a member of the DNAJ protein family. DNAJ family members are characterized by a highly conserved amino acid stretch called the 'J-domain' and function as one of the two major classes of molecular chaperones involved in a wide range of cellular events, such as protein folding and oligomeric protein complex assembly. This family member may also play a role in polyglutamine aggregation in specific neurons. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants; however, not all variants have been fully described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173281	 This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of the serine/theonine phosphatase, protein phosphatase-1. The encoded protein is expressed in liver and skeletal muscle tissue and may be involved in regulating glycogen synthesis in these tissues. This gene may be a involved in type 2 diabetes and maturity-onset diabetes of the young. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000115020	 Phosphorylated derivatives of phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) regulate cytoskeletal functions, membrane trafficking, and receptor signaling by recruiting protein complexes to cell- and endosomal-membranes. Humans have multiple PtdIns proteins that differ by the degree and position of phosphorylation of the inositol ring. This gene encodes an enzyme (PIKfyve; also known as phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate 5-kinase type III or PIPKIII) that phosphorylates the D-5 position in PtdIns and phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate (PtdIns3P) to make PtdIns5P and PtdIns(3,5)biphosphate. The D-5 position also can be phosphorylated by type I PtdIns4P-5-kinases (PIP5Ks) that are encoded by distinct genes and preferentially phosphorylate D-4 phosphorylated PtdIns. In contrast, PIKfyve preferentially phosphorylates D-3 phosphorylated PtdIns. In addition to being a lipid kinase, PIKfyve also has protein kinase activity. PIKfyve regulates endomembrane homeostasis and plays a role in the biogenesis of endosome carrier vesicles from early endosomes. Mutations in this gene cause corneal fleck dystrophy (CFD); an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by numerous small white flecks present in all layers of the corneal stroma. Histologically, these flecks appear to be keratocytes distended with lipid and mucopolysaccharide filled intracytoplasmic vacuoles. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000006757	 This gene encodes a member of the patatin-like family of phospholipases. The encoded enzyme has both triacylglycerol lipase and transacylase activities and may be involved in adipocyte triglyceride homeostasis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome Y. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000162614	 This gene encodes a filamentous actin-binding protein that may function in cell adhesion and migration. Mutations in this gene have been associated with dilated cardiomyopathy, also known as CMD1CC. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000197838	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. Although its endogenous substrate has not been determined, it is known to metabolize 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone, a major nitrosamine specific to tobacco. This gene is part of a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115641	 This gene encodes a member of the four-and-a-half-LIM-only protein family. Family members contain two highly conserved, tandemly arranged, zinc finger domains with four highly conserved cysteines binding a zinc atom in each zinc finger. This protein is thought to have a role in the assembly of extracellular membranes. Also, this gene is down-regulated during transformation of normal myoblasts to rhabdomyosarcoma cells and the encoded protein may function as a link between presenilin-2 and an intracellular signaling pathway. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000106633	 Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in most glucose metabolism pathways. Alternative splicing of this gene results in three tissue-specific forms of glucokinase, one found in pancreatic islet beta cells and two found in liver. The protein localizes to the outer membrane of mitochondria. In contrast to other forms of hexokinase, this enzyme is not inhibited by its product glucose-6-phosphate but remains active while glucose is abundant. Mutations in this gene have been associated with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), maturity onset diabetes of the young, type 2 (MODY2) and persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy (PHHI). [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000102145	 This gene encodes a protein which belongs to the GATA family of transcription factors. The protein plays an important role in erythroid development by regulating the switch of fetal hemoglobin to adult hemoglobin. Mutations in this gene have been associated with X-linked dyserythropoietic anemia and thrombocytopenia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000149295	 This gene encodes the D2 subtype of the dopamine receptor. This G-protein coupled receptor inhibits adenylyl cyclase activity. A missense mutation in this gene causes myoclonus dystonia; other mutations have been associated with schizophrenia. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. A third variant has been described, but it has not been determined whether this form is normal or due to aberrant splicing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147647	 Dihydropyrimidinase catalyzes the conversion of 5,6-dihydrouracil to 3-ureidopropionate in pyrimidine metabolism. Dihydropyrimidinase is expressed at a high level in liver and kidney as a major 2.5-kb transcript and a minor 3.8-kb transcript. Defects in the DPYS gene are linked to dihydropyrimidinuria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000072840	 This gene encodes a protein containing a leucine zipper and a transmembrane domain. This gene has been implicated in both Ellis-van Creveld syndrome (EvC) and Weyers acrodental dysostosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000151577	 This gene encodes the D3 subtype of the five (D1-D5) dopamine receptors. The activity of the D3 subtype receptor is mediated by G proteins which inhibit adenylyl cyclase. This receptor is localized to the limbic areas of the brain, which are associated with cognitive, emotional, and endocrine functions. Genetic variation in this gene may be associated with susceptibility to hereditary essential tremor 1. Alternative splicing of this gene results in transcript variants encoding different isoforms, although some variants may be subject to nonsense-mediated decay (NMD). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110013	 This gene encodes an enzyme which removes 9-O-acetylation modifications from sialic acids. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to autoimmune disease 6. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms, found either in the cytosol or in the lysosome, have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000162769	 This gene encodes a member of the major facilitator superfamily of transporter proteins. The encoded protein is a heme transporter that may play a critical role in erythropoiesis by protecting developing erythroid cells from heme toxicity. This gene may play a role in posterior column ataxia with retinitis pigmentosa and the hematological disorder Diamond-Blackfan syndrome. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000057294	 This gene encodes a member of the arm-repeat (armadillo) and plakophilin gene families. Plakophilin proteins contain numerous armadillo repeats, localize to cell desmosomes and nuclei, and participate in linking cadherins to intermediate filaments in the cytoskeleton. This gene product may regulate the signaling activity of beta-catenin. Two alternately spliced transcripts encoding two protein isoforms have been identified. A processed pseudogene with high similarity to this locus has been mapped to chromosome 12p13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145362	 This gene encodes a member of the ankyrin family of proteins that link the integral membrane proteins to the underlying spectrin-actin cytoskeleton. Ankyrins play key roles in activities such as cell motility, activation, proliferation, contact and the maintenance of specialized membrane domains. Most ankyrins are typically composed of three structural domains: an amino-terminal domain containing multiple ankyrin repeats; a central region with a highly conserved spectrin binding domain; and a carboxy-terminal regulatory domain which is the least conserved and subject to variation. The protein encoded by this gene is required for targeting and stability of Na/Ca exchanger 1 in cardiomyocytes. Mutations in this gene cause long QT syndrome 4 and cardiac arrhythmia syndrome. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000127688	 This gene encodes a member of the cytoskeletal BTB/kelch (Broad-Complex, Tramtrack and Bric a brac) repeat family. The encoded protein plays a role in neurofilament architecture and is involved in mediating the ubiquitination and degradation of some proteins. Defects in this gene are a cause of giant axonal neuropathy (GAN). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000075043	 The M channel is a slowly activating and deactivating potassium channel that plays a critical role in the regulation of neuronal excitability.  The M channel is formed by the association of the protein encoded by this gene and a related protein encoded by the KCNQ3 gene, both integral membrane proteins. M channel currents are inhibited by M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and activated by retigabine, a novel anti-convulsant drug. Defects in this gene are a cause of benign familial neonatal convulsions type 1 (BFNC), also known as epilepsy, benign neonatal type 1 (EBN1). At least five transcript variants encoding five different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000189067	 Lipopolysaccharide is a potent stimulator of monocytes and macrophages, causing secretion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and other inflammatory mediators. This gene encodes lipopolysaccharide-induced TNF-alpha factor, which is a DNA-binding protein and can mediate the TNF-alpha expression by direct binding to the promoter region of the TNF-alpha gene. The transcription of this gene is induced by tumor suppresor p53 and has been implicated in the p53-induced apoptotic pathway. Mutations in this gene cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1C (CMT1C) and may be involved in the carcinogenesis of extramammary Paget's disease (EMPD). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000102172	 This gene encodes a protein belonging to the spermidine/spermin synthase family. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 1, 5, 6 and X. Mutations in this gene are associated with X-linked Snyder-Robinson mental retardation syndrome. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000184058	 This gene is a member of a phylogenetically conserved family of genes that share a common DNA-binding domain, the T-box. T-box genes encode transcription factors involved in the regulation of developmental processes. This gene product shares 98% amino acid sequence identity with the mouse ortholog. DiGeorge syndrome (DGS)/velocardiofacial syndrome (VCFS), a common congenital disorder characterized by neural-crest-related developmental defects, has been associated with deletions of chromosome 22q11.2, where this gene has been mapped. Studies using mouse models of DiGeorge syndrome suggest a major role for this gene in the molecular etiology of DGS/VCFS. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000044524	 This gene belongs to the ephrin receptor subfamily of the protein-tyrosine kinase family. EPH and EPH-related receptors have been implicated in mediating developmental events, particularly in the nervous system. Receptors in the EPH subfamily typically have a single kinase domain and an extracellular region containing a Cys-rich domain and 2 fibronectin type III repeats. The ephrin receptors are divided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. This gene encodes a protein that binds ephrin-A ligands. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100526	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the dual specificity protein phosphatase family. It was identified as a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, and has been shown to interact with, and dephosphorylate CDK2 kinase, thus prevent the activation of CDK2 kinase. This gene was reported to be deleted, mutated, or overexpressed in several kinds of cancers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000085117	 This metastasis suppressor gene product is a membrane glycoprotein that is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily. Expression of this gene has been shown to be downregulated in tumor progression of human cancers and can be activated by p53 through a consensus binding sequence in the promoter. Its expression and that of p53 are strongly correlated, and the loss of expression of these two proteins is associated with poor survival for prostate cancer patients. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105880	 This gene encodes a member of a homeobox transcription factor gene family similiar to the Drosophila distal-less gene. The encoded protein may play a role in bone development and fracture healing. Mutation in this gene, which is located in a tail-to-tail configuration with another member of the family on the long arm of chromosome 7, may be associated with split-hand/split-foot malformation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137090	 This gene is found in a cluster with two other members of the gene family, having in common a zinc finger-like DNA-binding motif (DM domain). The DM domain is an ancient, conserved component of the vertebrate sex-determining pathway that is also a key regulator of male development in flies and nematodes. This gene exhibits a gonad-specific and sexually dimorphic expression pattern. Defective testicular development and XY feminization occur when this gene is hemizygous. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000180370	 The p21 activated kinases (PAK) are critical effectors that link Rho GTPases to cytoskeleton reorganization and nuclear signaling. The PAK proteins are a family of serine/threonine kinases that serve as targets for the small GTP binding proteins, CDC42 and RAC1, and have been implicated in a wide range of biological activities. The protein encoded by this gene is activated by proteolytic cleavage during caspase-mediated apoptosis, and may play a role in regulating the apoptotic events in the dying cell. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128709	 This gene belongs to the homeobox family of genes. The homeobox genes encode a highly conserved family of transcription factors that play an important role in morphogenesis in all multicellular organisms. Mammals possess four similar homeobox gene clusters, HOXA, HOXB, HOXC and HOXD, located on different chromosomes, consisting of 9 to 11 genes arranged in tandem. This gene is one of several homeobox HOXD genes located at 2q31-2q37 chromosome regions. Deletions that removed the entire HOXD gene cluster or 5' end of this cluster have been associated with severe limb and genital abnormalities. The exact role of this gene has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100311	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the platelet-derived growth factor family. The four members of this family are mitogenic factors for cells of mesenchymal origin and are characterized by a motif of eight cysteines. This gene product can exist either as a homodimer (PDGF-BB) or as a heterodimer with the platelet-derived growth factor alpha polypeptide (PDGF-AB), where the dimers are connected by disulfide bonds. Mutations in this gene are associated with meningioma. Reciprocal translocations between chromosomes 22 and 7, at sites where this gene and that for COL1A1 are located, are associated with a particular type of skin tumor called dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans resulting from unregulated expression of growth factor. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000174358	 This gene encodes a system B(0) transmembrane protein that actively transports most neutral amino acids across the apical membrane of epithelial cells. Mutations in this gene result in Hartnup disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000004848	 This gene is a homeobox-containing gene expressed during development. The expressed protein contains two conserved domains, a C-peptide (or aristaless domain) and the prd-like class homeobox domain. It is a member of the group-II aristaless-related protein family whose members are expressed primarily in the central and/or peripheral nervous system. This gene is thought to be involved in CNS development. Mutations in this gene cause X-linked mental retardation and epilepsy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000144061	 This gene encodes a protein with src homology domain 3 (SH3) patterns. This protein interacts with Crk-associated substrate, and it appears to function in the control of cell division, as well as in cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion signaling, likely as part of a multifunctional complex localized in actin- and microtubule-based structures. Mutations in this gene cause familial juvenile nephronophthisis type 1, a kidney disorder involving both tubules and glomeruli. Defects in this gene are also associated with Senior-Loken syndrome type 1, also referred to as juvenile nephronophthisis with Leber amaurosis, which is characterized by kidney and eye disease, and with Joubert syndrome type 4, which is characterized by cerebellar ataxia, oculomotor apraxia, psychomotor delay and neonatal breathing abnormalities, sometimes including retinal dystrophy and renal disease. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188120	 This gene is a member of the DAZ gene family and is a candidate for the human Y-chromosomal azoospermia factor (AZF). Its expression is restricted to premeiotic germ cells, particularly in spermatogonia. It encodes an RNA-binding protein that is important for spermatogenesis. Four copies of this gene are found on chromosome Y within palindromic duplications; one pair of genes is part of the P2 palindrome and the second pair is part of the P1 palindrome. Each gene contains a 2.4 kb repeat including a 72-bp exon, called the DAZ repeat; the number of DAZ repeats is variable and there are several variations in the sequence of the DAZ repeat. Each copy of the gene also contains a 10.8 kb region that may be amplified; this region includes five exons that encode an RNA recognition motif (RRM) domain. This gene contains three copies of the 10.8 kb repeat. However, no transcripts containing three copies of the RRM domain have been described; thus the RefSeq for this gene contains only two RRM domains. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000021826	 The mitochondrial enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes synthesis of carbamoyl phosphate from ammonia and bicarbonate. This reaction is the first committed step of the urea cycle, which is important in the removal of excess urea from cells. The encoded protein may also represent a core mitochondrial nucleoid protein. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The shortest isoform may not be localized to the mitochondrion. Mutations in this gene have been associated with carbamoyl phosphate synthetase deficiency, susceptibility to persistent pulmonary hypertension, and susceptibility to venoocclusive disease after bone marrow transplantation.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000119953	 This gene is a paralog of SMN1 gene, which encodes the survival motor neuron protein, mutations in which are cause of autosomal recessive proximal spinal muscular atrophy. The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear protein that has been identified as a constituent of the spliceosome complex. This gene is differentially expressed, with abundant levels in skeletal muscle, and may share similar cellular function as the SMN1 gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000185345	 The precise function of this gene is unknown; however, the encoded protein is a component of a multiprotein E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that mediates the targeting of substrate proteins for proteasomal degradation. Mutations in this gene are known to cause Parkinson disease and autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinson disease. Alternative splicing of this gene produces multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional splice variants of this gene have been described but currently lack transcript support. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000077264	 PAK proteins are critical effectors that link Rho GTPases to cytoskeleton reorganization and nuclear signaling. PAK proteins, a family of serine/threonine p21-activating kinases, serve as targets for the small GTP binding proteins Cdc42 and RAC and have been implicated in a wide range of biological activities. The protein encoded by this gene forms an activated complex with GTP-bound RAS-like (P21), CDC2 and RAC1 proteins which then catalyzes a variety of targets. This protein may be necessary for dendritic development and for the rapid cytoskeletal reorganization in dendritic spines associated with synaptic plasticity. Defects in this gene are the cause of non-syndromic mental retardation X-linked type 30 (MRX30), also called X-linked mental retardation type 47 (MRX47). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186153	 WW domain-containing proteins are found in all eukaryotes and play an important role in the regulation of a wide variety of cellular functions such as protein degradation, transcription, and RNA splicing. This gene encodes a protein which contains 2 WW domains and a short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase domain (SRD). The highest normal expression of this gene is detected in hormonally regulated tissues such as testis, ovary, and prostate. This expression pattern and the presence of an SRD domain suggest a role for this gene in steroid metabolism. The encoded protein is more than 90% identical to the mouse protein, which is an essential mediator of tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced apoptosis, suggesting a similar, important role in apoptosis for the human protein. In addition, there is evidence that this gene behaves as a suppressor of tumor growth. Alternative splicing of this gene generates transcript variants that encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000146054	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, a B-box type 1, a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. The protein localizes to both the nucleus and the cytoplasm, and may represent a participant in the initiation of glycogen synthesis. Multiple transcript variants have been found for this gene, and some of them encode the same isoform. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136861	 This gene encodes a regulator of CDK5 (cyclin-dependent kinase 5) activity. The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the centrosome and Golgi complex, interacts with CDK5R1 and pericentrin (PCNT), plays a role in centriole engagement and microtubule nucleation, and has been linked to primary microcephaly and Alzheimer's disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000122145	 This gene is a member of a phylogenetically conserved family of genes that share a common DNA-binding domain, the T-box. T-box genes encode transcription factors involved in the regulation of developmental processes. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the inherited X-linked disorder, Cleft palate with ankyloglossia, and it is believed to play a major role in human palatogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115138	 This gene encodes a polypeptide hormone precursor that undergoes extensive, tissue-specific, post-translational processing via cleavage by subtilisin-like enzymes known as prohormone convertases. There are eight potential cleavage sites within the polypeptide precursor and, depending on tissue type and the available convertases, processing may yield as many as ten biologically active peptides involved in diverse cellular functions. The encoded protein is synthesized mainly in corticotroph cells of the anterior pituitary where four cleavage sites are used; adrenocorticotrophin, essential for normal steroidogenesis and the maintenance of normal adrenal weight, and lipotropin beta are the major end products. In other tissues, including the hypothalamus, placenta, and epithelium, all cleavage sites may be used, giving rise to peptides with roles in pain and energy homeostasis, melanocyte stimulation, and immune modulation. These include several distinct melanotropins, lipotropins, and endorphins that are contained within the adrenocorticotrophin and beta-lipotropin peptides. Mutations in this gene have been associated with early onset obesity, adrenal insufficiency, and red hair pigmentation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105976	 The proto-oncogene MET product is the hepatocyte growth factor receptor and encodes tyrosine-kinase activity. The primary single chain precursor protein is post-translationally cleaved to produce the alpha and beta subunits, which are disulfide linked to form the mature receptor. Various mutations in the MET gene are associated with papillary renal carcinoma. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106211	 The protein encoded by this gene is induced by environmental stress and developmental changes. The encoded protein is involved in stress resistance and actin organization and translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus upon stress induction. Defects in this gene are a cause of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2F (CMT2F) and distal hereditary motor neuropathy (dHMN). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000103494	 The protein encoded by this gene can localize to the basal body-centrosome complex or to primary cilia and centrosomes in ciliated cells. The encoded protein has been found to interact with nephrocystin-4. Defects in this gene are a cause of Joubert syndrome type 7 (JBTS7) and Meckel syndrome type 5 (MKS5). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000055950	 Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein. This gene and the gene for a semaphorin class 4 protein (SEMA4G) overlap at map location 10q24.31 and are transcribed in opposite directions. Sequence analysis identified multiple transcript variants encoding at least four different protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196396	 The protein encoded by this gene is the founding member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family, which was isolated and identified based on its enzymatic activity and amino acid sequence. PTPs catalyze the hydrolysis of the phosphate monoesters specifically on tyrosine residues. Members of the PTP family share a highly conserved catalytic motif, which is essential for the catalytic activity. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP has been shown to act as a negative regulator of insulin signaling by dephosphorylating the phosphotryosine residues of insulin receptor kinase. This PTP was also reported to dephosphorylate epidermal growth factor receptor kinase, as well as JAK2 and TYK2 kinases, which implicated the role of this PTP in cell growth control, and cell response to interferon stimulation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128602	 The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled receptor that interacts with the patched protein, a receptor for hedgehog proteins. The encoded protein tranduces signals to other proteins after activation by a hedgehog protein/patched protein complex. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000112115	 The protein encoded by this gene is a proinflammatory cytokine produced by activated T cells. This cytokine regulates the activities of NF-kappaB and mitogen-activated protein kinases. This cytokine can stimulate the expression of IL6 and cyclooxygenase-2 (PTGS2/COX-2), as well as enhance the production of nitric oxide (NO). High levels of this cytokine are associated with several chronic inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis and multiple sclerosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101871	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family, also known as the 'RING-B box-coiled coil' (RBCC) subgroup of RING finger proteins. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. This protein forms homodimers which associate with microtubules in the cytoplasm. The protein is likely involved in the formation of multiprotein structures acting as anchor points to microtubules. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the X-linked form of Opitz syndrome, which is characterized by midline abnormalities such as cleft lip, laryngeal cleft, heart defects, hypospadias, and agenesis of the corpus callosum. This gene was also the first example of a gene subject to X inactivation in human while escaping it in mouse. Multiple different transcript variants are generated by alternate splicing; however, the full-length nature of some of the variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000165471	 This gene encodes the soluble mannose-binding lectin or mannose-binding protein found in serum. The protein encoded belongs to the collectin family and is an important element in the innate immune system. The protein recognizes mannose and N-acetylglucosamine on many microorganisms, and is capable of activating the classical complement pathway. Deficiencies of this gene have been associated with susceptibility to autoimmune and infectious diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000090382	 This gene encodes human lysozyme, whose natural substrate is the bacterial cell wall peptidoglycan (cleaving the beta[1-4]glycosidic linkages between N-acetylmuramic acid and N-acetylglucosamine). Lysozyme is one of the anti-microbial agents found in human milk, and is also present in spleen, lung, kidney, white blood cells, plasma, saliva, and tears. Missense mutations in LYZ have been identified in heritable renal amyloidosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000107798	 This gene encodes lipase A, the lysosomal acid lipase (also known as cholesterol ester hydrolase). This enzyme functions in the lysosome to catalyze the hydrolysis of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides. Mutations in this gene can result in Wolman disease and cholesteryl ester storage disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135218	 The protein encoded by this gene is the fourth major glycoprotein of the platelet surface and serves as a receptor for thrombospondin in platelets and various cell lines. Since thrombospondins are widely distributed proteins involved in a variety of adhesive processes, this protein may have important functions as a cell adhesion molecule. It binds to collagen, thrombospondin, anionic phospholipids and oxidized LDL. It directly mediates cytoadherence of Plasmodium falciparum parasitized erythrocytes and it binds long chain fatty acids and may function in the transport and/or as a regulator of fatty acid transport. Mutations in this gene cause platelet glycoprotein deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000161533	 The protein encoded by this gene is the first enzyme of the fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway, which catalyzes the desaturation of acyl-CoAs to 2-trans-enoyl-CoAs. It donates electrons directly to molecular oxygen, thereby producing hydrogen peroxide. Defects in this gene result in pseudoneonatal adrenoleukodystrophy, a disease that is characterized by accumulation of very long chain fatty acids. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000072080	 This gene encodes a secreted phosphoprotein that is a member of the cystatin superfamily. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000171100	 This gene encodes a dual-specificity phosphatase that acts on both phosphotyrosine and phosphoserine. It is required for muscle cell differentiation and mutations in this gene have been identified as being responsible for X-linked myotubular myopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000066427	 Machado-Joseph disease, also known as spinocerebellar ataxia-3, is an autosomal dominant neurologic disorder. The protein encoded by this gene contains (CAG)n repeats in the coding region, and the expansion of these repeats from the normal 13-36 to 68-79 is one cause of Machado-Joseph disease. There is a negative correlation between the age of onset and CAG repeat numbers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000163873	 Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. This gene product belongs to the kainate family of glutamate receptors, which are composed of four subunits and function as ligand-activated ion channels. It is not certain if the subunit encoded by this gene is subject to RNA editing as the other 2 family members (GRIK1 and GRIK2). A Ser310Ala polymorphism has been associated with schizophrenia, and there are conflicting reports of its association with the pathogenesis of delirium tremens in alcoholics. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000070193	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities, and are involved in a variety of biological processes, including embryonic development, cell growth, morphogenesis, tissue repair, tumor growth and invasion. This protein exhibits mitogenic activity for keratinizing epidermal cells, but essentially no activity for fibroblasts, which is similar to the biological activity of FGF7. Studies of the mouse homolog of suggested that this gene is required for embryonic epidermal morphogenesis including brain development, lung morphogenesis, and initiation of lim bud formation. This gene is also implicated to be a primary factor in the process of wound healing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000151422	  Fer protein is a member of the FPS/FES family of nontransmembrane receptor tyrosine kinases. It regulates cell-cell adhesion and mediates signaling from the cell surface to the cytoskeleton via growth factor receptors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145384	 The intracellular fatty acid-binding proteins (FABPs) belong to a multigene family with nearly twenty identified members. FABPs are divided into at least three distinct types, namely the hepatic-, intestinal- and cardiac-type. They form 14-15 kDa proteins and are thought to participate in the uptake, intracellular metabolism and/or transport of long-chain fatty acids. They may also be responsible in the modulation of cell growth and proliferation. Intestinal fatty acid-binding protein 2 gene contains four exons and is an abundant cytosolic protein in small intestine epithelial cells. This gene has a polymorphism at codon 54 that identified an alanine-encoding allele and a threonine-encoding allele. Thr-54 protein is associated with increased fat oxidation and insulin resistance. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000139083	 This gene encodes an ETS family transcription factor. The product of this gene contains two functional domains: a N-terminal pointed (PNT) domain that is involved in protein-protein interactions with itself and other proteins, and a C-terminal DNA-binding domain. Gene knockout studies in mice suggest that it is required for hematopoiesis and maintenance of the developing vascular network. This gene is known to be involved in a large number of chromosomal rearrangements associated with leukemia and congenital fibrosarcoma. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000138798	 This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor superfamily. The encoded protein is synthesized as a large precursor molecule that is proteolytically cleaved to generate the 53-amino acid epidermal growth factor peptide. This protein acts a potent mitogenic factor that plays an important role in the growth, proliferation and differentiation of numerous cell types. This protein acts by binding the high affinity cell surface receptor, epidermal growth factor receptor. Defects in this gene are the cause of hypomagnesemia type 4. Dysregulation of this gene has been associated with the growth and progression of certain cancers. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000108578	 Bleomycin hydrolase (BMH) is a cytoplasmic cysteine peptidase that is highly conserved through evolution; however, the only known activity of the enzyme is metabolic inactivation of the glycopeptide bleomycin (BLM), an essential component of combination chemotherapy regimens for cancer. The protein contains the signature active site residues of the cysteine protease papain superfamily. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000054523	 This gene encodes a motor protein that transports mitochondria and synaptic vesicle precursors. Mutations in this gene cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, type 2A1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186526	 This gene, CYP4F8, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and functions as a 19-hydroxylase of prostaglandins in seminal vesicles. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19. Another member of this family, CYP4F3, is approximately 18 kb away. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000095596	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum protein acts on retinoids, including all-trans-retinoic acid (RA), with both 4-hydroxylation and 18-hydroxylation activities. This enzyme regulates the cellular level of retinoic acid which is involved in regulation of gene expression in both embryonic and adult tissues. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene, which encode the distinct isoforms, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147402	 The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor is a multisubunit chloride channel that mediates the fastest inhibitory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. This gene encodes the theta subunit of the GABA A receptor. The gene is mapped to chromosome Xq28 in a cluster of genes including those that encode the alpha 3 and epsilon subunits of the GABA A receptor. This gene location is also the candidate region of two different neurologic diseases: early-onset parkinsonism (Waisman syndrome) and X-linked mental retardation (MRX3). [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000101945	 This gene is a member of the suppressor of variegation 3-9 homolog family and encodes a protein with a chromodomain and a C-terminal SET domain. This nuclear protein moves to the centromeres during mitosis and functions as a histone methyltransferase, methylating Lys-9 of histone H3. Overall, it plays a vital role in heterochromatin organization, chromosome segregation, and mitotic progression. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000004864	 This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier family. The encoded protein contains four EF-hand Ca(2+) binding motifs in the N-terminal domain, and localizes to mitochondria. The protein catalyzes the exchange of aspartate for glutamate and a proton across the inner mitochondrial membrane, and is stimulated by calcium on the external side of the inner mitochondrial membrane. Mutations in this gene result in citrullinemia, type II. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000110680	 This gene encodes the peptide hormones calcitonin, calcitonin gene-related peptide and katacalcin by tissue-specific alternative RNA splicing of the gene transcripts and cleavage of inactive precursor proteins. Calcitonin is involved in calcium regulation and acts to regulate phosphorus metabolism. Calcitonin gene-related peptide functions as a vasodilator while katacalcin is a calcium-lowering peptide. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000147180	 This gene encodes a zinc finger protein of unknown function. It bears similarity to a zinc finger protein which acts as a transcriptional activator. This gene lies in a region of the X chromosome which has been associated with mental retardation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171408	 The 3',5'-cyclic nucleotides cAMP and cGMP function as second messengers in a wide variety of signal transduction pathways. 3',5'-cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases (PDEs) catalyze the hydrolysis of cAMP and cGMP to the corresponding 5'-monophosphates and provide a mechanism to downregulate cAMP and cGMP signaling. This gene encodes a cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase, a member of the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase family.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000198846	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a HMG box DNA binding domain. HMG boxes are found in many eukaryotic proteins involved in chromatin assembly, transcription and replication. This protein may function to regulate T-cell development.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000164867	 Nitric oxide is a reactive free radical which acts as a biologic mediator in several processes, including neurotransmission and antimicrobial and antitumoral activities. Nitric oxide is synthesized from L-arginine by nitric oxide synthases. Variations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to coronary spasm. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000146205	 This prostate-specific gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein, as well as a polytopic membrane protein which may serve as a target in prostate cancer diagnosis and immunotherapy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000167791	 This gene belongs to a subfamily of calcium binding proteins that share similarity to calmodulin. Like calmodulin, these family members can likely stimulate calmodulin-dependent kinase II and the protein phosphatase calcineurin. Calcium binding proteins are an important component of calcium mediated cellular signal transduction.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000005102	 This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of non-clustered, diverged, antennapedia-like homeobox-containing genes. The encoded protein may play a role in the molecular signaling network regulating somite development. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000091483	 The protein encoded by this gene is an enzymatic component of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, or Krebs cycle, and catalyzes the formation of L-malate from fumarate. It exists in both a cytosolic form and an N-terminal extended form, differing only in the translation start site used. The N-terminal extended form is targeted to the mitochondrion, where the removal of the extension generates the same form as in the cytoplasm. It is similar to some thermostable class II fumarases and functions as a homotetramer. Mutations in this gene can cause fumarase deficiency and lead to progressive encephalopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000180772	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family, and functions as a receptor for angiotensin II. It is an intergral membrane protein that is highly expressed in fetus, but scantily in adult tissues, except brain, adrenal medulla, and atretic ovary. This receptor has been shown to mediate programmed cell death and this apoptotic function may play an important role in developmental biology and pathophysiology. Mutations in this gene are been associated with X-linked mental retardation. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000180182	 The activation of gene transcription is a multistep process that is triggered by factors that recognize transcriptional enhancer sites in DNA. These factors work with co-activators to direct transcriptional initiation by the RNA polymerase II apparatus. The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the CRSP (cofactor required for SP1 activation) complex, which, along with TFIID, is required for efficient activation by SP1. This protein is also a component of other multisubunit complexes e.g. thyroid hormone receptor-(TR-) associated proteins which interact with TR and facilitate TR function on DNA templates in conjunction with initiation factors and cofactors. This protein contains a bipartite nuclear localization signal. This gene is known to escape chromosome X-inactivation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000118513	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that is a member of the MYB family of transcription factor genes. The protein contains three domains, an N-terminal DNA-binding domain, a central transcriptional activation domain and a C-terminal domain involved in transcriptional repression. This protein plays an essential role in the regulation of hematopoiesis and may play a role in tumorigenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000122550	 This gene encodes a BTB-Kelch-related protein. The encoded protein may be involved in protein degradation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with retinitis pigmentosa 42. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000126952	 This gene is one member of a family of nuclear RNA export factor genes. The encoded protein can bind RNA, and is implicated in mRNA nuclear export. However, this protein has lost several C-terminal protein domains found in other family members that are required for export activity, and may be an evolving pseudogene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but most are candidates for nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) and may not express proteins in vivo. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000169059	 This gene belongs to the VCX/Y gene family, which has multiple members on both X and Y chromosomes, and all are expressed exclusively in male germ cells. The X-linked members are clustered on chromosome Xp22 and Y-linked members are two identical copies of the gene within a palindromic region on Yq11. The family members share a high degree of sequence identity, with the exception that a 30-bp unit is tandemly repeated in X-linked members but occurs only once in Y-linked members. The VCX gene cluster is polymorphic in terms of copy number; different individuals may have a different number of VCX genes. VCX/Y genes encode small and highly charged proteins of unknown function. The presence of a putative bipartite nuclear localization signal suggests that VCX/Y members are nuclear proteins. This gene contains 8 repeats of the 30-bp unit. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000089127	 This gene encodes a member of the 2-5A synthetase family, essential proteins involved in the innate immune response to viral infection. The encoded protein is induced by interferons and uses adenosine triphosphate in 2'-specific nucleotidyl transfer reactions to synthesize 2',5'-oligoadenylates (2-5As). These molecules activate latent RNase L, which results in viral RNA degradation and the inhibition of viral replication. The three known members of this gene family are located in a cluster on chromosome 12. Mutations in this gene have been associated with host susceptibility to viral infection. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000162729	 This gene encodes a member the EWI subfamily of the immunoglobulin protein superfamily. Members of this family contain a single transmembrane domain, an EWI (Glu-Trp-Ile)-motif and a variable number of immunoglobulin domains. This protein interacts with the tetraspanins CD81 and CD9 and may regulate their role in certain cellular functions including cell migration and viral infection. The encoded protein may also function as a tumor suppressor by inhibiting the proliferation of certain cancers. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000204065	 This gene, which is located on the X chromosome, encodes a protein which contains a BEX (brain expressed X-liked like family) domain. This domain is found in proteins encoded by the TCEAL elongation factor (transcription elongation factor A (SII)-like) gene family also located on the X chromosome. The coding region for this gene is located entirely in the terminal exon. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000176225	 This gene encodes a large protein whose specific function is unknown. Absence of the orthologous protein in mouse results in embryonic lethality with deficient axial rotation, abnormal differentiation of the neural tube, and randomized looping of the heart tube during development. In human, mutations in this gene are associated with polymicrogyria with seizures. In human fibroblasts this protein localizes at the ciliary basal bodies. Given the intracellular localization of this protein and the phenotypic effects of mutations, this gene is suspected of playing a role in the maintenance of normal ciliary structure which in turn effects the developmental process of left-right organ specification, axial rotation, and perhaps notochord development. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000115392	 The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2). The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementation group L. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186090	 The protein encoded this gene belongs to the ligand-gated ion channel receptor superfamily. This gene encodes subunit D of the type 3 receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin), a biogenic hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter, a mitogen and a hormone. This hormone has been linked to neuropsychiatric disorders, including anxiety, depression, and migraine. Serotonin receptors causes fast and depolarizing responses in neurons following activation. The genes encoding subunits C, D and E of this type 3 receptor form a cluster on chromosome 3. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000157399	 Arylsulfatase E is a member of the sulfatase family. It is glycosylated postranslationally and localized to the golgi apparatus. Sulfatases are essential for the correct composition of bone and cartilage matrix. X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata, a disease characterized by abnormalities in cartilage and bone development, has been linked to mutations in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160202	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Alpha crystallins are composed of two gene products: alpha-A and alpha-B, for acidic and basic, respectively. Alpha crystallins can be induced by heat shock and are members of the small heat shock protein (sHSP also known as the HSP20) family. They act as molecular chaperones although they do not renature proteins and release them in the fashion of a true chaperone; instead they hold them in large soluble aggregates. Post-translational modifications decrease the ability to chaperone. These heterogeneous aggregates consist of 30-40 subunits; the alpha-A and alpha-B subunits have a 3:1 ratio, respectively. Two additional functions of alpha crystallins are an autokinase activity and participation in the intracellular architecture. Alpha-A and alpha-B gene products are differentially expressed; alpha-A is preferentially restricted to the lens and alpha-B is expressed widely in many tissues and organs. Defects in this gene cause autosomal dominant congenital cataract (ADCC). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000174437	 This gene encodes one of the SERCA Ca(2+)-ATPases, which are intracellular pumps located in the sarcoplasmic or endoplasmic reticula of muscle cells. This enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the translocation of calcium from the cytosol into the sarcoplasmic reticulum lumen, and is involved in regulation of the contraction/relaxation cycle. Mutations in this gene cause Darier-White disease, also known as keratosis follicularis, an autosomal dominant skin disorder characterized by loss of adhesion between epidermal cells and abnormal keratinization. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000196431	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Beta-crystallins, the most heterogeneous, differ by the presence of the C-terminal extension (present in the basic group, none in the acidic group). Beta-crystallins form aggregates of different sizes and are able to self-associate to form dimers or to form heterodimers with other beta-crystallins. This gene, a beta acidic group member, is part of a gene cluster with beta-B1, beta-B2, and beta-B3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000072210	 Aldehyde dehydrogenase isozymes are thought to play a major role in the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism and lipid peroxidation. This gene product catalyzes the oxidation of long-chain aliphatic aldehydes to fatty acid. Mutations in the gene cause Sjogren-Larsson syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000244752	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Beta-crystallins, the most heterogeneous, differ by the presence of the C-terminal extension (present in the basic group, none in the acidic group). Beta-crystallins form aggregates of different sizes and are able to self-associate to form dimers or to form heterodimers with other beta-crystallins. This gene, a beta basic group member, is part of a gene cluster with beta-A4, beta-B1, and beta-B3. A chain-terminating mutation was found to cause type 2 cerulean cataracts. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140968	 Interferon consensus sequence-binding protein (ICSBP) is a transcription factor of the interferon (IFN) regulatory factor (IRF) family. Proteins of this family are composed of a conserved DNA-binding domain in the N-terminal region and a divergent C-terminal region that serves as the regulatory domain. The IRF family proteins bind to the IFN-stimulated response element (ISRE) and regulate expression of genes stimulated by type I IFNs, namely IFN-alpha and IFN-beta. IRF family proteins also control expression of IFN-alpha and IFN-beta-regulated genes that are induced by viral infection. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000179477	 This gene encodes an enzyme involved in the converstion of arachidonic acid to 12R-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid. Mutations in this gene are associated with nonbullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110921	 This gene encodes the peroxisomal enzyme mevalonate kinase. Mevalonate is a key intermediate, and mevalonate kinase a key early enzyme, in isoprenoid and sterol synthesis. Mevalonate kinase deficiency caused by mutation of this gene results in mevalonic aciduria, a disease characterized psychomotor retardation, failure to thrive, hepatosplenomegaly, anemia and recurrent febrile crises. Defects in this gene also cause hyperimmunoglobulinaemia D and periodic fever syndrome, a disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of fever associated with lymphadenopathy, arthralgia, gastrointestinal dismay and skin rash. Two transcript variants that encode the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000161270	 This gene encodes a member of the immunoglobulin family of cell adhesion molecules that functions in the glomerular filtration barrier in the kidney. The gene is primarily expressed in renal tissues, and the protein is a type-1 transmembrane protein found at the slit diaphragm of glomerular podocytes. The slit diaphragm is thought to function as an ultrafilter to exclude albumin and other plasma macromolecules in the formation of urine. Mutations in this gene result in Finnish-type congenital nephrosis 1, characterized by severe proteinuria and loss of the slit diaphragm and foot processes.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000000971	 This gene is a member of the Regulator of Complement Activation (RCA) gene cluster and encodes a protein with twenty short consensus repeat (SCR) domains. This protein is secreted into the bloodstream and has an essential role in the regulation of complement activation, restricting this innate defense mechanism to microbial infections. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) and chronic hypocomplementemic nephropathy. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000058085	 Laminins, a family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins, are the major noncollagenous constituent of basement membranes. They have been implicated in a wide variety of biological processes including cell adhesion, differentiation, migration, signaling, neurite outgrowth and metastasis. Laminins, composed of 3 non identical chains: laminin alpha, beta and gamma (formerly A, B1, and B2, respectively), have a cruciform structure consisting of 3 short arms, each formed by a different chain, and a long arm composed of all 3 chains. Each laminin chain is a multidomain protein encoded by a distinct gene. Several isoforms of each chain have been described. Different alpha, beta and gamma chain isomers combine to give rise to different heterotrimeric laminin isoforms which are designated by Arabic numerals in the order of their discovery, i.e. alpha1beta1gamma1 heterotrimer is laminin 1. The biological functions of the different chains and trimer molecules are largely unknown, but some of the chains have been shown to differ with respect to their tissue distribution, presumably reflecting diverse functions in vivo. This gene encodes the gamma chain isoform laminin, gamma 2. The gamma 2 chain, formerly thought to be a truncated version of beta chain (B2t), is highly homologous to the gamma 1 chain; however, it lacks domain VI, and domains V, IV and III are shorter. It is expressed in several fetal tissues but differently from gamma 1, and is specifically localized to epithelial cells in skin, lung and kidney. The gamma 2 chain together with alpha 3 and beta 3 chains constitute laminin 5 (earlier known as kalinin), which is an integral part of the anchoring filaments that connect epithelial cells to the underlying basement membrane. The epithelium-specific expression of the gamma 2 chain implied its role as an epithelium attachment molecule, and mutations in this gene have been associated with junctional epidermolysis bullosa, a skin disease characterized by blisters due to disruption of the epidermal-dermal junction. Two transcript variants resulting from alternative splicing of the 3' terminal exon, and encoding different isoforms of gamma 2 chain, have been described. The two variants are differentially expressed in embryonic tissues, however, the biological significance of the two forms is not known. Transcript variants utilizing alternative polyA_signal have also been noted in literature. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000080503	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SWI/SNF family of proteins and is highly similar to the brahma protein of Drosophila. Members of this family have helicase and ATPase activities and are thought to regulate transcription of certain genes by altering the chromatin structure around those genes. The encoded protein is part of the large ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complex SNF/SWI, which is required for transcriptional activation of genes normally repressed by chromatin. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, which contains a trinucleotide repeat (CAG) length polymorphism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138802	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SEC24 subfamily of the SEC23/SEC24 family, which is involved in vesicle trafficking. The encoded protein has similarity to yeast Sec24p component of COPII. COPII is the coat protein complex responsible for vesicle budding from the ER. The role of this gene product is implicated in the shaping of the vesicle, and also in cargo selection and concentration. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159200	 The protein encoded by this gene interacts with calcineurin A and inhibits calcineurin-dependent signaling pathways, possibly affecting central nervous system development. This gene is located in the minimal candidate region for the Down syndrome phenotype, and is overexpressed in the brain of Down syndrome fetuses. Chronic overexpression of this gene may lead to neurofibrillary tangles such as those associated with Alzheimer disease. Three transcript variants encoding three different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167642	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein with two extracellular Kunitz domains that inhibits a variety of serine proteases. The protein inhibits HGF activator which prevents the formation of active hepatocyte growth factor. This gene is a putative tumor suppressor, and mutations in this gene result in congenital sodium diarrhea. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000046604	 Desmosomes are cell-cell junctions between epithelial, myocardial, and certain other cell types. This gene product is a calcium-binding transmembrane glycoprotein component of desmosomes in vertebrate epithelial cells. Currently, three desmoglein subfamily members have been identified and all are members of the cadherin cell adhesion molecule superfamily. These desmoglein gene family members are located in a cluster on chromosome 18. This second family member is expressed in colon, colon carcinoma, and other simple and stratified epithelial-derived cell lines. Mutations in this gene have been associated with arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, familial, 10. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198125	 This gene encodes a member of the globin superfamily and is expressed in skeletal and cardiac muscles. The encoded protein is a haemoprotein contributing to intracellular oxygen storage and transcellular facilitated diffusion of oxygen. At least three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000144452	 The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, and White). This encoded protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily, which is the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140374	 ETFA participates in catalyzing the initial step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation. It shuttles electrons between primary flavoprotein dehydrogenases and the membrane-bound electron transfer flavoprotein ubiquinone oxidoreductase. Defects in electron-transfer-flavoprotein have been implicated in type II glutaricaciduria in which multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiencies result in large excretion of glutaric, lactic, ethylmalonic, butyric, isobutyric, 2-methyl-butyric, and isovaleric acids. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000101347	 This gene may play a role in regulation of the innate immune response. The encoded protein is upregulated in response to viral infection and may be involved in mediation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha proinflammatory responses. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000107643	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. This kinase is activated by various cell stimuli, and targets specific transcription factors, and thus mediates immediate-early gene expression in response to cell stimuli. The activation of this kinase by tumor-necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) is found to be required for TNF-alpha induced apoptosis. This kinase is also involved in UV radiation induced apoptosis, which is thought to be related to cytochrom c-mediated cell death pathway. Studies of the mouse counterpart of this gene suggested that this kinase play a key role in T cell proliferation, apoptosis and differentiation. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164270	 This gene is a member of the family of serotonin receptors, which are G protein coupled receptors that stimulate cAMP production in response to serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine). The gene product is a glycosylated transmembrane protein that functions in both the peripheral and central nervous system to modulate the release of various neurotransmitters. Multiple transcript variants encoding proteins with distinct C-terminal sequences have been described. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000174325	 This gene consists of two exons and encodes a 104aa protein. Disruption of this gene by translocation t(2;3)(q33;q21) is associated with familial clear cell renal cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000118402	 This gene encodes a membrane-bound protein which is a member of the ELO family, proteins which participate in the biosynthesis of fatty acids. Consistent with the expression of the encoded protein in photoreceptor cells of the retina, mutations and small deletions in this gene are associated with Stargardt-like macular dystrophy (STGD3) and autosomal dominant Stargardt-like macular dystrophy (ADMD), also referred to as autosomal dominant atrophic macular degeneration. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000171155	 This gene encodes a type II transmembrane protein that is similar to the core 1 beta1,3-galactosyltransferase 1, which catalyzes the synthesis of the core-1 structure, also known as Thomsen-Friedenreich antigen, on O-linked glycans. This gene product lacks the galactosyltransferase activity itself, but instead acts as a molecular chaperone required for the folding, stability and full activity of the core 1 beta1,3-galactosyltransferase 1. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Tn syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the C1GALT1C1*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000111664	 Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins), which integrate signals between receptors and effector proteins, are composed of an alpha, a beta, and a gamma subunit. These subunits are encoded by families of related genes. This gene encodes a beta subunit. Beta subunits are important regulators of alpha subunits, as well as of certain signal transduction receptors and effectors. A single-nucleotide polymorphism (C825T) in this gene is associated with essential hypertension and obesity. This polymorphism is also associated with the occurrence of the splice variant GNB3-s, which appears to have increased activity. GNB3-s is an example of alternative splicing caused by a nucleotide change outside of the splice donor and acceptor sites. Additional splice variants may exist for this gene, but they have not been fully described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175606	 This gene likely encodes a mitochondrial membrane protein. The encoded protein may play a role in biogenesis of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mutations in this gene have been associated with neonatal mitochondrial encephalocardiomyopathy due to ATP synthase deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000048392	 This gene encodes the small subunit of a p53-inducible ribonucleotide reductase. This heterotetrameric enzyme catalyzes the conversion of ribonucleoside diphosphates to deoxyribonucleoside diphosphates. The product of this reaction is necessary for DNA synthesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome, autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia-5, and mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000125676	 The TREX multiprotein complex binds specifically to spliced mRNAs to facilitate mRNA export. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the THO complex, a subset of the TREX complex. The encoded protein interacts with the THOC1 protein.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000047644	 This gene encodes a member of the WWC family of proteins, which also includes the WWC1 (KIBRA) gene product and the WWC2 gene product. The protein encoded by this gene includes a C2 domain, which is known to mediate homodimerization in the related WWC1 gene product. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000127948	 This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum membrane oxidoreductase with an FAD-binding domain and a flavodoxin-like domain. The protein binds two cofactors, FAD and FMN, which allow it to donate electrons directly from NADPH to all microsomal P450 enzymes. Mutations in this gene have been associated with various diseases, including apparent combined P450C17 and P450C21 deficiency, amenorrhea and disordered steroidogenesis, congenital adrenal hyperplasia and Antley-Bixler syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000073861	 This gene is a member of a phylogenetically conserved family of genes that share a common DNA-binding domain, the T-box. T-box genes encode transcription factors involved in the regulation of developmental processes. This gene is the human ortholog of mouse Tbx21/Tbet gene. Studies in mouse show that Tbx21 protein is a Th1 cell-specific transcription factor that controls the expression of the hallmark Th1 cytokine, interferon-gamma (IFNG). Expression of the human ortholog also correlates with IFNG expression in Th1 and natural killer cells, suggesting a role for this gene in initiating Th1 lineage development from naive Th precursor cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188827	 This gene encodes a structure-specific endonuclease subunit. The encoded protein contains a central BTB domain and it forms a multiprotein complex with the ERCC4(XPF)-ERCC1, MUS81-EME1, and SLX1 endonucleases, and also associates with MSH2/MSH3 mismatch repair complex, telomere binding complex TERF2(TRF2)-TERF2IP(RAP1), the protein kinase PLK1 and the uncharacterized protein C20orf94. The multiprotein complex is required for repair of specific types of DNA lesions and is critical for cellular responses to replication fork failure. The encoded protein acts as a docking platform for the assembly of multiple structure-specific endonucleases.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000171105	 After removal of the precursor signal peptide, the insulin receptor precursor is post-translationally cleaved into two chains (alpha and beta) that are covalently linked. Binding of insulin to the insulin receptor (INSR) stimulates glucose uptake. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000091409	 The ITGA6 protein product is the integrin alpha chain alpha 6. Integrins are integral cell-surface proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain. A given chain may combine with multiple partners resulting in different integrins. For example, alpha 6 may combine with beta 4 in the integrin referred to as TSP180, or with beta 1 in the integrin VLA-6. Integrins are known to participate in cell adhesion as well as cell-surface mediated signalling. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115008	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokine family. This cytokine is a pleiotropic cytokine involved in various immune responses, inflammatory processes, and hematopoiesis. This cytokine is produced by monocytes and macrophages as a proprotein, which is proteolytically processed and released in response to cell injury, and thus induces apoptosis. This gene and eight other interleukin 1 family genes form a cytokine gene cluster on chromosome 2. It has been suggested that the polymorphism of these genes is associated with rheumatoid arthritis and Alzheimer's disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125538	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokine family. This cytokine is produced by activated macrophages as a proprotein, which is proteolytically processed to its active form by caspase 1 (CASP1/ICE). This cytokine is an important mediator of the inflammatory response, and is involved in a variety of cellular activities, including cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. The induction of cyclooxygenase-2 (PTGS2/COX2) by this cytokine in the central nervous system (CNS) is found to contribute to inflammatory pain hypersensitivity. This gene and eight other interleukin 1 family genes form a cytokine gene cluster on chromosome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000092200	 This gene encodes a photoreceptor protein that interacts with retinitis pigmentosa GTPase regulator protein and is a key component of cone and rod photoreceptor cells. Mutations in this gene lead to autosomal recessive congenital blindness. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000206561	 This gene encodes the subunit of a collagen-like molecule associated with acetylcholinesterase in skeletal muscle. Each molecule is composed of three identical subunits. Each subunit contains a proline-rich attachment domain (PRAD) that binds an acetylcholinesterase tetramer to anchor the catalytic subunit of the enzyme to the basal lamina. Mutations in this gene are associated with endplate acetylcholinesterase deficiency. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114200	   Mutant alleles at the BCHE locus are responsible for suxamethonium sensitivity. Homozygous persons sustain prolonged apnea after administration of the muscle relaxant suxamethonium in connection with surgical anesthesia. The activity of pseudocholinesterase in the serum is low and its substrate behavior is atypical. In the absence of the relaxant, the homozygote is at no known disadvantage. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000074047	 This gene encodes a protein which belongs to the C2H2-type zinc finger protein subclass of the Gli family. Members of this subclass are characterized as transcription factors which bind DNA through zinc finger motifs. These motifs contain conserved H-C links. Gli family zinc finger proteins are mediators of Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling and they are implicated as potent oncogenes in the embryonal carcinoma cell. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the cytoplasm and activates patched Drosophila homolog (PTCH) gene expression. It is also thought to play a role during embryogenesis. The encoded protein is associated with several phenotypes- Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome, Pallister-Hall syndrome, preaxial polydactyly type IV, postaxial polydactyly types A1 and B. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115844	 Many vertebrate homeo box-containing genes have been identified on the basis of their sequence similarity with Drosophila developmental genes. Members of the Dlx gene family contain a homeobox that is related to that of Distal-less (Dll), a gene expressed in the head and limbs of the developing fruit fly. The Distal-less (Dlx) family of genes comprises at least 6 different members, DLX1-DLX6. The DLX proteins are postulated to play a role in forebrain and craniofacial development. This gene is located in a tail-to-tail configuration with another member of the gene family on the long arm of chromosome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000144355	 This gene encodes a member of a homeobox transcription factor gene family similiar to the Drosophila distal-less gene. The encoded protein is localized to the nucleus where it may function as a transcriptional regulator of signals from multiple TGF-{beta} superfamily members. The encoded protein may play a role in the control of craniofacial patterning and the differentiation and survival of inhibitory neurons in the forebrain. This gene is located in a tail-to-tail configuration with another member of the family on the long arm of chromosome 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164733	 The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase composed of a dimer of disulfide-linked heavy and light chains, both produced from a single protein precursor. It is also known as amyloid precursor protein secretase and is involved in the proteolytic processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP). Incomplete proteolytic processing of APP has been suggested to be a causative factor in Alzheimer disease, the most common cause of dementia. Overexpression of the encoded protein, which is a member of the peptidase C1 family, has been associated with esophageal adenocarcinoma and other tumors. At least five transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148677	 The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the nucleus of endothelial cells and is induced by IL-1 and TNF-alpha stimulation. Studies in rat cardiomyocytes suggest that this gene functions as a transcription factor. Interactions between this protein and the sarcomeric proteins myopalladin and titin suggest that it may also be involved in the myofibrillar stretch-sensor system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125378	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the bone morphogenetic protein family which is part of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily. The superfamily includes large families of growth and differentiation factors. Bone morphogenetic proteins were originally identified by an ability of demineralized bone extract to induce endochondral osteogenesis in vivo in an extraskeletal site. This particular family member plays an important role in the onset of endochondral bone formation in humans, and a reduction in expression has been associated with a variety of bone diseases, including the heritable disorder Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva. Alternative splicing in the 5' untranslated region of this gene has been described and three variants are described, all encoding an identical protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131100	 This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A, three B, and two G subunits, as well as a C, D, E, F, and H subunit. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. This gene encodes alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different V1 domain E subunit isoforms. Pseudogenes for this gene have been found in the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000086848	 This gene encodes an alpha-1,2-mannosyltransferase enzyme that functions in lipid-linked oligosaccharide assembly. Mutations in this gene result in congenital disorder of glycosylation type Il. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000115415	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT protein family. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers that translocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators. This protein can be activated by various ligands including interferon-alpha, interferon-gamma, EGF, PDGF and IL6. This protein mediates the expression of a variety of genes, which is thought to be important for cell viability in response to different cell stimuli and pathogens. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135899	 The nuclear body is a multiprotein complex that may have a role in the regulation of gene transcription. This gene is a member of the SP100/SP140 family of nuclear body proteins and encodes a leukocyte-specific nuclear body component. The protein can function as an activator of gene transcription and may serve as a nuclear hormone receptor coactivator. In addition, it has been suggested that the protein may play a role in ribosome biogenesis and in the induction of myeloid cell differentiation. Alternative splicing has been observed for this gene and three transcript variants, encoding distinct isoforms, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000172867	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. The type II cytokeratins consist of basic or neutral proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains coexpressed during differentiation of simple and stratified epithelial tissues. This type II cytokeratin is expressed largely in the upper spinous layer of epidermal keratinocytes and mutations in this gene have been associated with bullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma. The type II cytokeratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q12-q13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186081	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. The type II cytokeratins consist of basic or neutral proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains coexpressed during differentiation of simple and stratified epithelial tissues. This type II cytokeratin is specifically expressed in the basal layer of the epidermis with family member KRT14. Mutations in these genes have been associated with a complex of diseases termed epidermolysis bullosa simplex. The type II cytokeratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q12-q13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197249	 The protein encoded by this gene is secreted and is a serine protease inhibitor whose targets include elastase, plasmin, thrombin, trypsin, chymotrypsin, and plasminogen activator. Defects in this gene can cause emphysema or liver disease. Several transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169306	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 receptor family and is similar to the interleukin 1 accessory proteins. It is most closely related to interleukin 1 receptor accessory protein-like 2 (IL1RAPL2). This gene and IL1RAPL2 are located at a region on chromosome X that is associated with X-linked non-syndromic mental retardation. Deletions and mutations in this gene were found in patients with mental retardation. This gene is expressed at a high level in post-natal brain structures involved in the hippocampal memory system, which suggests a specialized role in the physiological processes underlying memory and learning abilities. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124279	 This gene encodes a member of a small family of Fas-activated serine/threonine kinase domain (FASTKD) containing proteins that share an amino terminal mitochondrial targeting domain and multiple carboxy terminal FAST domains as well as a putative RNA-binding RAP domain. The members of this family are ubiquitously expressed and are generally most abundant in mitochondria-enriched tissues such as heart, skeletal muscle and brown-adipose tissue. Some members of this protein family may play a role in apoptosis. The protein encoded by this gene interacts with components of the mitochondrial respiratory and translation networks. A pseudogene of this gene is also present on chromosome 5. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000205420	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. The type II cytokeratins consist of basic or neutral proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains coexpressed during differentiation of simple and stratified epithelial tissues. As many as six of this type II cytokeratin (KRT6) have been identified; the multiplicity of the genes is attributed to successive gene duplication events. The genes are expressed with family members KRT16 and/or KRT17 in the filiform papillae of the tongue, the stratified epithelial lining of oral mucosa and esophagus, the outer root sheath of hair follicles, and the glandular epithelia. This KRT6 gene in particular encodes the most abundant isoform. Mutations in these genes have been associated with pachyonychia congenita. The type II cytokeratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q12-q13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000185479	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. The type II cytokeratins consist of basic or neutral proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains coexpressed during differentiation of simple and stratified epithelial tissues. As many as six of this type II cytokeratin (KRT6) have been identified; the multiplicity of the genes is attributed to successive gene duplication events. The genes are expressed with family members KRT16 and/or KRT17 in the filiform papillae of the tongue, the stratified epithelial lining of oral mucosa and esophagus, the outer root sheath of hair follicles, and the glandular epithelia. Mutations in these genes have been associated with pachyonychia congenita. The type II cytokeratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q12-q13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178104	 The protein encoded by this gene serves to anchor phosphodiesterase 4D to the Golgi/centrosome region of the cell. Defects in this gene may be a cause of myeloproliferative disorder (MBD) associated with eosinophilia. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000156466	 This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) family and the TGF-beta superfamily of secreted signaling molecules. It is required for normal formation of some bones and joints in the limbs, skull, and axial skeleton. Mutations in this gene result in colobomata, which are congenital abnormalities in ocular development, and in Klippel-Feil syndrome (KFS), which is a congenital disorder of spinal segmentation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125863	 This gene encodes a protein which shares sequence similarity with other members of the chaperonin family. The encoded protein may have a role in protein folding, processing and assembly. Mutations in this gene have been observed in patients with Bardet-Biedl syndrome type 6 and McKusick-Kaufman syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000078674	 The protein encoded by this gene is a component of centriolar satellites, which are electron dense granules scattered around centrosomes. Inhibition studies show that this protein is essential for the correct localization of several centrosomal proteins, and for anchoring microtubules to the centrosome. Chromosomal aberrations involving this gene are associated with papillary thyroid carcinomas and a variety of hematological malignancies, including atypical chronic myeloid leukemia and T-cell lymphoma. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000135956	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein with 3 predicted transmembrane domains. The protein is associated with a subpopulation of vesicular organelles corresponding to early endosomal structures, with the Golgi, and with lysosomes, and may participate in protein trafficking between these structures. Mutations in this gene and several other genes cause pheochromocytomas. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000119686	 This gene encodes a member of the major facilitator superfamily. The encoded transmembrane protein is a calcium transporter. Unlike the related protein feline leukemia virus subgroup C receptor 1, the protein encoded by this locus does not bind to feline leukemia virus subgroup C envelope protein. The encoded protein may play a role in development of brain vascular endothelial cells, as mutations at this locus have been associated with proliferative vasculopathy and hydranencephaly-hydrocephaly syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000069974	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the small GTPase superfamily, Rab family. The protein is membrane-bound and may be involved in protein transport and small GTPase mediated signal transduction. Mutations in this gene are associated with Griscelli syndrome type 2. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and four transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132915	 This gene encodes the cyclic-GMP (cGMP)-specific phosphodiesterase 6A alpha subunit, expressed in cells of the retinal rod outer segment. The phosphodiesterase 6 holoenzyme is a heterotrimer composed of an alpha, beta, and two gamma subunits. cGMP is an important regulator of rod cell membrane current, and its dynamic concentration is established by phosphodiesterase 6A cGMP hydrolysis and guanylate cyclase cGMP synthesis. The protein is a subunit of a key phototransduction enzyme and participates in processes of transmission and amplification of the visual signal. Mutations in this gene have been identified as one cause of autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116703	 This gene encodes a phosphoprotein, which is located in the outer and inner segments of the rod cells in the retina. This protein may participate in the regulation of visual phototransduction or in the integration of photoreceptor metabolism. It modulates the phototransduction cascade by interacting with the beta and gamma subunits of the retinal G-protein transducin. This gene is a potential candidate gene for retinitis pigmentosa and Usher syndrome type II. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102218	 The RP2 locus has been implicated as one cause of X-linked retinitis pigmentosa. The predicted gene product shows homology with human cofactor C, a protein involved in the ultimate step of beta-tubulin folding. Progressive retinal degeneration may therefore be due to the accumulation of incorrectly-folded photoreceptor or neuron-specific tubulin isoforms followed by progressive cell death [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148604	 This gene encodes a putative retinal G-protein coupled receptor. The gene is a member of the opsin subfamily of the 7 transmembrane, G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. Like other opsins which bind retinaldehyde, it contains a conserved lysine residue in the seventh transmembrane domain. The protein acts as a photoisomerase to catalyze the conversion of all-trans-retinal to 11-cis-retinal. The reverse isomerization occurs with rhodopsin in retinal photoreceptor cells. The protein is exclusively expressed in tissue adjacent to retinal photoreceptor cells, the retinal pigment epithelium and Mueller cells. This gene may be associated with autosomal recessive and autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa (arRP and adRP, respectively). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102076	 This gene encodes for a light absorbing visual pigment of the opsin gene family. The encoded protein is called red cone photopigment or long-wavelength sensitive opsin. Opsins are G-protein coupled receptors with seven transmembrane domains, an N-terminal extracellular domain, and a C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. This gene and the medium-wavelength opsin gene are tandemly arrayed on the X chromosome and frequent unequal recombination and gene conversion may occur between these sequences. X chromosomes may have fusions of the medium- and long-wavelength opsin genes or may have more than one copy of these genes. Defects in this gene are the cause of partial, protanopic colorblindness. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000141076	 This gene encodes a WD40-repeat-containing protein that is localized to the nucleolus. Mutation of this gene causes North American Indian childhood cirrhosis, a severe intrahepatic cholestasis that results in transient neonatal jaundice, and progresses to periportal fibrosis and cirrhosis in childhood and adolescence. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000176697	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the nerve growth factor family. It is induced by cortical neurons, and is necessary for survival of striatal neurons in the brain. Expression of this gene is reduced in both Alzheimer's and Huntington disease patients. This gene may play a role in the regulation of stress response and in the biology of mood disorders. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000116132	 The DNA-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the paired family of homeobox proteins localized to the nucleus. The protein functions as a transcription co-activator, enhancing the DNA-binding activity of serum response factor, a protein required for the induction of genes by growth and differentiation factors. The protein regulates muscle creatine kinase, indicating a role in the establishment of diverse mesodermal muscle types. Alternative splicing yields two isoforms that differ in abundance and expression patterns. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000154122	 This gene encodes a multipass transmembrane protein that is expressed in joints and other tissues and controls pyrophosphate levels in cultured cells. Progressive ankylosis-mediated control of pyrophosphate levels has been suggested as a possible mechanism regulating tissue calcification and susceptibility to arthritis in higher animals. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal dominant craniometaphyseal dysplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000025796	 The Sec61 complex is the central component of the protein translocation apparatus of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane. The protein encoded by this gene and SEC62 protein are found to be associated with ribosome-free SEC61 complex. It is speculated that Sec61-Sec62-Sec63 may perform post-translational protein translocation into the ER. The Sec61-Sec62-Sec63 complex might also perform the backward transport of ER proteins that are subject to the ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation pathway. The encoded protein is an integral membrane protein located in the rough ER. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000151632	 This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. These enzymes catalyze the conversion of aldehydes and ketones to their corresponding alcohols using NADH and/or NADPH as cofactors. The enzymes display overlapping but distinct substrate specificity. This enzyme binds bile acid with high affinity, and shows minimal 3-alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity. This gene shares high sequence identity with three other gene members and is clustered with those three genes at chromosome 10p15-p14. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000116014	 The protein encoded by this gene is a galanin-like G protein-coupled receptor that binds metastin, a peptide encoded by the metastasis suppressor gene KISS1. The tissue distribution of the expressed gene suggests that it is involved in the regulation of endocrine function, and this is supported by the finding that this gene appears to play a role in the onset of puberty. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and central precocious puberty. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163421	 This gene encodes a protein expressed in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) circadian clock that may function as the output component of the circadian clock. The secreted form of the encoded protein may also serve as a chemoattractant for neuronal precursor cells in the olfactory bulb. Proteins from other vertebrates which are similar to this gene product were isolated based on homology to snake venom and secretions from frog skin, and have been shown to have diverse functions. Mutations in this gene are associated with Kallmann syndrome 4. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000013573	 DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, which is an enzyme that possesses both ATPase and DNA helicase activities. This gene is a homolog of the yeast CHL1 gene, and may function to maintain chromosome transmission fidelity and genome stability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120896	 This gene encodes an SH3 domain-containing adaptor protein. The presence of SH3 domains play a role in this protein's ability to bind other cytoplasmic molecules and contribute to cystoskeletal organization, cell adhesion and migration, signaling, and gene expression. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000159217	 This gene encodes a member of the insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein family. The protein encoded by this gene contains four K homology domains and two RNA recognition motifs. It functions by binding to the mRNAs of certain genes, including insulin-like growth factor 2, beta-actin and beta-transducin repeat-containing protein, and regulating their translation. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000084110	 Histidine ammonia-lyase is a cytosolic enzyme catalyzing the first reaction in histidine catabolism, the nonoxidative deamination of L-histidine to trans-urocanic acid. Histidine ammonia-lyase defects cause histidinemia which is characterized by increased histidine and histamine and decreased urocanic acid in body fluids. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000106031	 In vertebrates, the genes encoding the class of transcription factors called homeobox genes are found in clusters named A, B, C, and D on four separate chromosomes. Expression of these proteins is spatially and temporally regulated during embryonic development. This gene is part of the A cluster on chromosome 7 and encodes a DNA-binding transcription factor which may regulate gene expression, morphogenesis, and differentiation. Expansion of a polyalanine tract in the encoded protein can cause hand-foot-uterus syndrome, also known as hand-foot-genital syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133835	 The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that is involved in the peroxisomal beta-oxidation pathway for fatty acids. It also acts as a catalyst for the formation of 3-ketoacyl-CoA intermediates from both straight-chain and 2-methyl-branched-chain fatty acids. Defects in this gene that affect the peroxisomal fatty acid beta-oxidation activity are a cause of D-bifunctional protein deficiency (DBPD). An apparent pseudogene of this gene is present on chromosome 8. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000139515	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional activator of several genes, including insulin, somatostatin, glucokinase, islet amyloid polypeptide, and glucose transporter type 2. The encoded nuclear protein is involved in the early development of the pancreas and plays a major role in glucose-dependent regulation of insulin gene expression. Defects in this gene are a cause of pancreatic agenesis, which can lead to early-onset insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), as well as maturity onset diabetes of the young type 4 (MODY4). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000205426	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. As a type II hair keratin, it is a basic protein which heterodimerizes with type I keratins to form hair and nails. The type II hair keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q13 and are grouped into two distinct subfamilies based on structure similarity. One subfamily, consisting of KRTHB1, KRTHB3, and KRTHB6, is highly related. The other less-related subfamily includes KRTHB2, KRTHB4, and KRTHB5. All hair keratins are expressed in the hair follicle; this hair keratin, as well as KRTHB3 and KRTHB6, is found primarily in the hair cortex. Mutations in this gene and KRTHB6 have been observed in patients with a rare dominant hair disease, monilethrix. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134333	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of L-lactate and NAD to pyruvate and NADH in the final step of anaerobic glycolysis. The protein is found predominantly in muscle tissue and belongs to the lactate dehydrogenase family. Mutations in this gene have been linked to exertional myoglobinuria. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The human genome contains several non-transcribed pseudogenes of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000163359	 This gene encodes the alpha-3 chain, one of the three alpha chains of type VI collagen, a beaded filament collagen found in most connective tissues. The alpha-3 chain of type VI collagen is much larger than the alpha-1 and -2 chains. This difference in size is largely due to an increase in the number of subdomains, similar to von Willebrand Factor type A domains, that are found in the amino terminal globular domain of all the alpha chains. These domains have been shown to bind extracellular matrix proteins, an interaction that explains the importance of this collagen in organizing matrix components. Mutations in the type VI collagen genes are associated with Bethlem myopathy, a rare autosomal dominant proximal myopathy with early childhood onset. Mutations in this gene are also a cause of Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy, also referred to as Ullrich scleroatonic muscular dystrophy, an autosomal recessive congenital myopathy that is more severe than Bethlem myopathy. Multiple transcript variants have been identified, but the full-length nature of only some of these variants has been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000142156	 The collagens are a superfamily of proteins that play a role in maintaining the integrity of various tissues. Collagens are extracellular matrix proteins and have a triple-helical domain as their common structural element. Collagen VI is a major structural component of microfibrils. The basic structural unit of collagen VI is a heterotrimer of the alpha1(VI), alpha2(VI), and alpha3(VI) chains. The alpha2(VI) and alpha3(VI) chains are encoded by the COL6A2 and COL6A3 genes, respectively. The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha 1 subunit of type VI collagen (alpha1(VI) chain). Mutations in the genes that code for the collagen VI subunits result in the autosomal dominant disorder, Bethlem myopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000142173	 This gene encodes one of the three alpha chains of type VI collagen, a beaded filament collagen found in most connective tissues. The product of this gene contains several domains similar to von Willebrand Factor type A domains. These domains have been shown to bind extracellular matrix proteins, an interaction that explains the importance of this collagen in organizing matrix components. Mutations in this gene are associated with Bethlem myopathy and Ullrich scleroatonic muscular dystrophy. Three transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000001631	 This gene encodes a protein containing four ankyrin repeats, a band 4.1/ezrin/radixin/moesin (FERM) domain, and multiple NPXY sequences. The encoded protein is localized in the nucleus and cytoplasm. It binds to integrin cytoplasmic domain-associated protein-1 alpha (ICAP1alpha), and plays a critical role in beta1-integrin-mediated cell proliferation. It associates with junction proteins and RAS-related protein 1A (Rap1A), which requires the encoded protein for maintaining the integrity of endothelial junctions. It is also a microtubule-associated protein and may play a role in microtubule targeting. Mutations in this gene result in cerebral cavernous malformations. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000196569	 Laminin, an extracellular protein, is a major component of the basement membrane. It is thought to mediate the attachment, migration, and organization of cells into tissues during embryonic development by interacting with other extracellular matrix components. It is composed of three subunits, alpha, beta, and gamma, which are bound to each other by disulfide bonds into a cross-shaped molecule. This gene encodes the alpha 2 chain, which constitutes one of the subunits of laminin 2 (merosin) and laminin 4 (s-merosin). Mutations in this gene have been identified as the cause of congenital merosin-deficient muscular dystrophy. Two transcript variants encoding different proteins have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000150540	 In mammals, histamine is metabolized by two major pathways: N(tau)-methylation via histamine N-methyltransferase and oxidative deamination via diamine oxidase. This gene encodes the first enzyme which is found in the cytosol and uses S-adenosyl-L-methionine as the methyl donor. In the mammalian brain, the neurotransmitter activity of histamine is controlled by N(tau)-methylation as diamine oxidase is not found in the central nervous system. A common genetic polymorphism affects the activity levels of this gene product in red blood cells. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different proteins have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125347	 IRF1 encodes interferon regulatory factor 1, a member of the interferon regulatory transcription factor (IRF) family. IRF1 serves as an activator of interferons alpha and beta transcription, and in mouse it has been shown to be required for double-stranded RNA induction of these genes. IRF1 also functions as a transcription activator of genes induced by interferons alpha, beta, and gamma. Further, IRF1 has been shown to play roles in regulating apoptosis and tumor-suppressoion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140678	 This gene encodes the integrin alpha X chain protein. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain. This protein combines with the beta 2 chain (ITGB2) to form a leukocyte-specific integrin referred to as inactivated-C3b (iC3b) receptor 4 (CR4). The alpha X beta 2 complex seems to overlap the properties of the alpha M beta 2 integrin in the adherence of neutrophils and monocytes to stimulated endothelium cells, and in the phagocytosis of complement coated particles. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000144057	 This locus encodes a sialyltransferase. The encoded type II transmembrane protein catalyzes the transfer of sialic acid from CMP to an oligosaccharide substrate. Polymorphisms at this locus may be associated with variations in risperidone response in schizophrenic patients. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000161970	 Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 60S subunit. The protein belongs to the L24P family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108479	 Galactokinase is a major enzyme for the metabolism of galactose and its deficiency causes congenital cataracts during infancy and presenile cataracts in the adult population. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187608	 The protein encoded by this gene is a ubiquitin-like protein that is conjugated to intracellular target proteins upon activation by interferon-alpha and interferon-beta. Several functions have been ascribed to the encoded protein, including chemotactic activity towards neutrophils, direction of ligated target proteins to intermediate filaments, cell-to-cell signaling, and antiviral activity during viral infections. While conjugates of this protein have been found to be noncovalently attached to intermediate filaments, this protein is sometimes secreted. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000133812	 This gene encodes a pseudophosphatase and member of the myotubularin-related protein family. This gene maps within the CMT4B2 candidate region of chromosome 11p15 and mutations in this gene have been associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease, type 4B2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115204	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial inner membrane protein that is implicated in the metabolism of reactive oxygen species. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the hepatocerebral form of mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome (MDDS). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125965	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) family and the TGF-beta superfamily. This group of proteins is characterized by a polybasic proteolytic processing site which is cleaved to produce a mature protein containing seven conserved cysteine residues. The members of this family are regulators of cell growth and differentiation in both embryonic and adult tissues. Mutations in this gene are associated with acromesomelic dysplasia, Hunter-Thompson type; brachydactyly, type C; and chondrodysplasia, Grebe type. These associations confirm that the gene product plays a role in skeletal development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187242	 KRT12 encodes the type I intermediate filament chain keratin 12, expressed in corneal epithelia. Mutations in this gene lead to Meesmann corneal dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000075785	 RAB family members are small, RAS-related GTP-binding proteins that are important regulators of vesicular transport. Each RAB protein targets multiple proteins that act in exocytic / endocytic pathways. This gene encodes a RAB family member that regulates vesicle traffic in the late endosomes and also from late endosomes to lysosomes. This encoded protein is also involved in the cellular vacuolation of the VacA cytotoxin of Helicobacter pylori. Mutations at highly conserved amino acid residues in this gene have caused some forms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) type 2 neuropathies. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000139219	 This gene encodes the alpha-1 chain of type II collagen, a fibrillar collagen found in cartilage and the vitreous humor of the eye. Mutations in this gene are associated with achondrogenesis, chondrodysplasia, early onset familial osteoarthritis, SED congenita, Langer-Saldino achondrogenesis, Kniest dysplasia, Stickler syndrome type I, and spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia Strudwick type. In addition, defects in processing chondrocalcin, a calcium binding protein that is the C-propeptide of this collagen molecule, are also associated with chondrodysplasia. There are two transcripts identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128928	 Isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase (IVD) is a mitochondrial matrix enzyme that catalyzes the third step in leucine catabolism. The genetic deficiency of IVD results in an accumulation of isovaleric acid, which is toxic to the central nervous system and leads to isovaleric acidemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000159842	 This gene encodes a protein that is similar to the protein encoded by the breakpoint cluster region gene located on chromosome 22. The protein encoded by this gene contains a GTPase-activating protein domain, a domain found in members of the Rho family of GTP-binding proteins. Functional studies in mice determined that this protein plays a role in vestibular morphogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000128519	 This gene encodes a member of a family of candidate taste receptors that are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. These family members are specifically expressed by taste receptor cells of the tongue and palate epithelia. Each of these apparently intronless genes encodes a 7-transmembrane receptor protein, functioning as a bitter taste receptor. This gene is clustered with another 3 candidate taste receptor genes in chromosome 7 and is genetically linked to loci that influence bitter perception. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164520	 This gene belong to the RAET1 family, which consists of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-related genes located in a cluster on chromosome 6q24.2-q25.3. This and RAET1G protein differ from other RAET1 proteins in that they have type I membrane-spanning sequences at their C termini rather than glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor sequences. This protein functions as a ligand for NKG2D receptor, which is expressed on the surface of several types of immune cells, and is involved in innate and adaptive immune responses. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000168615	 This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The protein encoded by this gene interacts with SH3 domain-containing proteins, binds mitotic arrest deficient 2 beta protein, and is also involved in TPA-induced ectodomain shedding of membrane-anchored heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000215421	 This gene encodes a zinc finger protein whose exact function is not known. It may be involved in transcriptional regulation. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000198363	 This gene is thought to play an important role in calcium homeostasis. The gene is expressed from two promoters and undergoes extensive alternative splicing. The encoded set of proteins share varying amounts of overlap near their N-termini but have substantial variations in their C-terminal domains resulting in distinct functional properties. The longest isoforms (a and f) include a C-terminal Aspartyl/Asparaginyl beta-hydroxylase domain that hydroxylates aspartic acid or asparagine residues in the epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like domains of some proteins, including protein C, coagulation factors VII, IX, and X, and the complement factors C1R and C1S. Other isoforms differ primarily in the C-terminal sequence and lack the hydroxylase domain, and some have been localized to the endoplasmic and sarcoplasmic reticulum. Some of these isoforms are found in complexes with calsequestrin, triadin, and the ryanodine receptor, and have been shown to regulate calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Some isoforms have been implicated in metastasis. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000140836	 This gene encodes a transcription factor with multiple homeodomains and zinc finger motifs, and regulates myogenic and neuronal differentiation. The encoded protein suppresses expression of the alpha-fetoprotein gene by binding to an AT-rich enhancer motif. The protein has also been shown to negatively regulate c-Myb, and transactivate the cell cycle inhibitor cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1A (also known as p21CIP1). This gene is reported to function as a tumor suppressor in several cancers, and sequence variants of this gene are also associated with atrial fibrillation. Multiple transcript variants expressed from alternate promoters and encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000106366	 This gene encodes a member of the serine proteinase inhibitor (serpin) superfamily. This member is the principal inhibitor of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and urokinase (uPA), and hence is an inhibitor of fibrinolysis. Defects in this gene are the cause of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 deficiency (PAI-1 deficiency), and high concentrations of the gene product are associated with thrombophilia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000112033	 This gene encodes a member of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) family. PPARs are nuclear hormone receptors that bind peroxisome proliferators and control the size and number of peroxisomes produced by cells. PPARs mediate a variety of biological processes, and may be involved in the development of several chronic diseases, including diabetes, obesity, atherosclerosis, and cancer. This protein is a potent inhibitor of ligand-induced transcription activity of PPAR alpha and PPAR gamma. It may function as an integrator of transcription repression and nuclear receptor signaling. The expression of this gene is found to be elevated in colorectal cancer cells. The elevated expression can be repressed by adenomatosis polyposis coli (APC), a tumor suppressor protein related to APC/beta-catenin signaling pathway. Knockout studies in mice suggested the role of this protein in myelination of the corpus callosum, lipid metabolism, and epidermal cell proliferation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000165694	 Mutations in this gene are associated with X-linked congenital nystagmus. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000186471	 The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. The protein anchors PKA in ciliary axonemes and, in this way, may play a role in regulating ciliary beat frequency. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000117118	 Complex II of the respiratory chain, which is specifically involved in the oxidation of succinate, carries electrons from FADH to CoQ. The complex is composed of four nuclear-encoded subunits and is localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane. The iron-sulfur subunit is highly conserved and contains three cysteine-rich clusters which may comprise the iron-sulfur centers of the enzyme. Sporadic and familial mutations in this gene result in paragangliomas and pheochromocytoma, and support a link between mitochondrial dysfunction and tumorigenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000151835	 This gene encodes the sacsin protein, which includes a UbL domain at the N-terminus, a DnaJ domain, and a HEPN domain at the C-terminus. The gene is highly expressed in the central nervous system, also found in skin, skeletal muscles and at low levels in the pancreas. This gene includes a very large exon spanning more than 12.8 kb. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (ARSACS), a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by early-onset cerebellar ataxia with spasticity and peripheral neuropathy. The authors of a publication on the effects of siRNA-mediated sacsin knockdown concluded that sacsin protects against mutant ataxin-1 and suggest that 'the large multi-domain sacsin protein is able to recruit Hsp70 chaperone action and has the potential to regulate the effects of other ataxia proteins' (Parfitt et al., PubMed: 19208651). [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000138162	 Transforming acidic coiled-coil proteins are a conserved family of centrosome- and microtubule-interacting proteins that are implicated in cancer. This gene encodes a protein that concentrates at centrosomes throughout the cell cycle. This gene lies within a chromosomal region associated with tumorigenesis. Expression of this gene is induced by erythropoietin and is thought to affect the progression of breast tumors. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000121270	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This ABC full transporter is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. The product of this gene participates in physiological processes involving bile acids, conjugated steroids, and cyclic nucleotides. In addition, a SNP in this gene is responsible for determination of human earwax type. This gene and family member ABCC12 are determined to be derived by duplication and are both localized to chromosome 16q12.1. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000142208	 The serine-threonine protein kinase encoded by the AKT1 gene is catalytically inactive in serum-starved primary and immortalized fibroblasts. AKT1 and the related AKT2 are activated by platelet-derived growth factor. The activation is rapid and specific, and it is abrogated by mutations in the pleckstrin homology domain of AKT1. It was shown that the activation occurs through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. In the developing nervous system AKT is a critical mediator of growth factor-induced neuronal survival. Survival factors can suppress apoptosis in a transcription-independent manner by activating the serine/threonine kinase AKT1, which then phosphorylates and inactivates components of the apoptotic machinery. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the Proteus syndrome. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000164691	 This gene encodes a protein that may function as a Rho GTPase-activating protein. Transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000092964	 This gene encodes a member of the collapsin response mediator protein family. Collapsin response mediator proteins form homo- and hetero-tetramers and facilitate neuron guidance, growth and polarity. The encoded protein promotes microtubule assembly and is required for Sema3A-mediated growth cone collapse, and also plays a role in synaptic signaling through interactions with calcium channels. This gene has been implicated in multiple neurological disorders, and hyperphosphorylation of the encoded protein may play a key role in the development of Alzheimer's disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000197217	 This gene encodes a member of the apyrase protein family. Apyrases are enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of nucleotide diphosphates and triphosphates in a calcium or magnesium-dependent manner. The encoded protein is an endo-apyrase and may play a role in salvaging nucleotides from lysosomes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and these isoforms may differ in divalent cation dependence and substrate specificity. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000131055	 Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. It is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may be involved in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes isoform 2 of subunit IV. Isoform 1 of subunit IV is encoded by a different gene, however, the two genes show a similar structural organization. Subunit IV is the largest nuclear encoded subunit which plays a pivotal role in COX regulation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147955	 This gene encodes a receptor protein that interacts with a variety of psychotomimetic drugs, including cocaine and amphetamines. The receptor is believed to play an important role in the cellular functions of various tissues associated with the endocrine, immune, and nervous systems. As indicated by its previous name, opioid receptor sigma 1 (OPRS1), the product of this gene was erroneously thought to function as an opioid receptor; it is now thought to be a non-opioid receptor. Alternative splicing of this gene results in transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000073711	 This gene encodes one of the regulatory subunits of the protein phosphatase 2. Protein phosphatase 2 (formerly named type 2A) is one of the four major Ser/Thr phosphatases and is implicated in the negative control of cell growth and division. Protein phosphatase 2 holoenzymes are heterotrimeric proteins composed of a structural subunit A, a catalytic subunit C, and a regulatory subunit B. The regulatory subunit is encoded by a diverse set of genes that have been grouped into the B/PR55, B'/PR61, and B''/PR72 families. These different regulatory subunits confer distinct enzymatic specificities and intracellular localizations to the holozenzyme. The product of this gene belongs to the B'' family. The B'' family has been further divided into subfamilies. The product of this gene belongs to the alpha subfamily of regulatory subunit B''. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000134389	 This gene is a member of a small complement factor H (CFH) gene cluster on chromosome 1. Each member of this gene family contains multiple short consensus repeats (SCRs) typical of regulators of complement activation. The protein encoded by this gene has nine SCRs with the first two repeats having heparin binding properties, a region within repeats 5-7 having heparin binding and C reactive protein binding properties, and the C-terminal repeats being similar to a complement component 3 b (C3b) binding domain. This protein co-localizes with C3, binds C3b in a dose-dependent manner, and is recruited to tissues damaged by C-reactive protein. Allelic variations in this gene have been associated, but not causally linked, with two different forms of kidney disease: membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis type II (MPGNII) and hemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS). [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000176974	 This gene encodes the cellular form of serine hydroxymethyltransferase, a pyridoxal phosphate-containing enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of serine and tetrahydrofolate to glycine and 5,10-methylene tetrahydrofolate. This reaction provides one carbon units for synthesis of methionine, thymidylate, and purines in the cytoplasm. This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. Alternative splicing of this gene results in 2 transcript variants encoding 2 different isoforms. Additional transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197496	 This gene encodes a member of the class III facilitative glucose transporter family. The encoded protein plays a role in regulation of glucose homeostasis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with arterial tortuosity syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000169239	  Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide.  They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid.  They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization.  CA VB is localized in the mitochondria and shows the highest sequence similarity to the other mitochondrial CA, CA VA.  It has a wider tissue distribution than CA VA, which is restricted to the liver. The differences in tissue distribution suggest that the two mitochondrial carbonic anhydrases evolved to assume different physiologic roles. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130203	  Chylomicron remnants and very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) remnants are rapidly removed from the circulation by receptor-mediated endocytosis in the liver. Apolipoprotein E, a main apoprotein of the chylomicron, binds to a specific receptor on liver cells and peripheral cells.  ApoE is essential for the normal catabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoprotein constituents.  The APOE gene is mapped to chromosome 19 in a cluster with APOC1 and APOC2. Defects in apolipoprotein E result in familial dysbetalipoproteinemia, or type III hyperlipoproteinemia (HLP III), in which increased plasma cholesterol and triglycerides are the consequence of impaired clearance of chylomicron and VLDL remnants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000043355	 This gene encodes a member of the ZIC family of C2H2-type zinc finger proteins. This protein functions as a transcriptional repressor and may regulate tissue specific expression of dopamine receptor D1. Mutations in this gene cause holoprosencephaly type 5. Holoprosencephaly is the most common structural anomaly of the human brain. A polyhistidine tract polymorphism in this gene may be associated with increased risk of neural tube defects. This gene is closely linked to a gene encoding zinc finger protein of the cerebellum 5, a related family member on chromosome 13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000118520	 Arginase catalyzes the hydrolysis of arginine to ornithine and urea. At least two isoforms of mammalian arginase exist (types I and II) which differ in their tissue distribution, subcellular localization, immunologic crossreactivity and physiologic function. The type I isoform encoded by this gene, is a cytosolic enzyme and expressed predominantly in the liver as a component of the urea cycle. Inherited deficiency of this enzyme results in argininemia, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by hyperammonemia. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000118972	 This gene encodes a member of the fibroblast growth factor family of proteins, which possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities and are involved in a variety of biological processes. The product of this gene regulates phosphate homeostasis and transport in the kidney. The full-length, functional protein may be deactivated via cleavage into N-terminal and C-terminal chains. Mutation of this cleavage site causes autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets (ADHR). Mutations in this gene are also associated with hyperphosphatemic familial tumoral calcinosis (HFTC). [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000105372	 Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 40S subunit. The protein belongs to the S19E family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. Mutations in this gene cause Diamond-Blackfan anemia (DBA), a constitutional erythroblastopenia characterized by absent or decreased erythroid precursors, in a subset of patients. This suggests a possible extra-ribosomal function for this gene in erythropoietic differentiation and proliferation, in addition to its ribosomal function. Higher expression levels of this gene in some primary colon carcinomas compared to matched normal colon tissues has been observed. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130402	  Alpha actinins belong to the spectrin gene superfamily which represents a diverse group of cytoskeletal proteins, including the alpha and beta spectrins and dystrophins.  Alpha actinin is an actin-binding protein with multiple roles in different cell types.  In nonmuscle cells, the cytoskeletal isoform is found along microfilament bundles and adherens-type junctions, where it is involved in binding actin to the membrane.  In contrast, skeletal, cardiac, and smooth muscle isoforms are localized to the Z-disc and analogous dense bodies, where they help anchor the myofibrillar actin filaments.  This gene encodes a nonmuscle, alpha actinin isoform which is concentrated in the cytoplasm, and thought to be involved in metastatic processes. Mutations in this gene have been associated with focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000161850	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. As a type II hair keratin, it is a basic protein which heterodimerizes with type I keratins to form hair and nails. The type II hair keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q13 and are grouped into two distinct subfamilies based on structure similarity. One subfamily, consisting of KRTHB1, KRTHB3, and KRTHB6, is highly related. The other less-related subfamily includes KRTHB2, KRTHB4, and KRTHB5. All hair keratins are expressed in the hair follicle; this keratin appears to be a hair cuticle-specific keratin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135480	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. The type II cytokeratins consist of basic or neutral proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains coexpressed during differentiation of simple and stratified epithelial tissues. This type II cytokeratin is specifically expressed in the simple epithelia lining the cavities of the internal organs and in the gland ducts and blood vessels. The genes encoding the type II cytokeratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q12-q13. Alternative splicing may result in several transcript variants; however, not all variants have been fully described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171360	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. As a type I hair keratin, it is an acidic protein which heterodimerizes with type II keratins to form hair and nails. The type I hair keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21 and have the same direction of transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108417	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. As a type I hair keratin, it is an acidic protein which heterodimerizes with type II keratins to form hair and nails. The type I hair keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21 and have the same direction of transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000011201	 Mutations in this gene cause the X-linked Kallmann syndrome. The encoded protein is similar in sequence to proteins known to function in neural cell adhesion and axonal migration. In addition, this cell surface protein is N-glycosylated and may have anti-protease activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197079	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. This type I hair keratin is an acidic protein which heterodimerizes with type II keratins to form hair and nails. The type I hair keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21 and have the same direction of transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131737	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. As a type I hair keratin, it is an acidic protein which heterodimerizes with type II keratins to form hair and nails. The type I hair keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21 and have the same direction of transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000001497	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL050306.5. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000147036	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AC233283.3 and AC233297.3. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000117308	 This gene encodes UDP-galactose-4-epimerase which catalyzes two distinct but analogous reactions: the epimerization of UDP-glucose to UDP-galactose, and the epimerization of UDP-N-acetylglucosamine to UDP-N-acetylgalactosamine. The bifunctional nature of the enzyme has the important metabolic consequence that mutant cells (or individuals) are dependent not only on exogenous galactose, but also on exogenous N-acetylgalactosamine as a necessary precursor for the synthesis of glycoproteins and glycolipids. Mutations in this gene result in epimerase-deficiency galactosemia, also referred to as galactosemia type 3, a disease characterized by liver damage, early-onset cataracts, deafness and mental retardation, with symptoms ranging from mild ('peripheral' form) to severe ('generalized' form). Multiple alternatively spliced transcripts encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000065618	 This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XVII collagen. Unlike most collagens, collagen XVII is a transmembrane protein. Collagen XVII is a structural component of hemidesmosomes, multiprotein complexes at the dermal-epidermal basement membrane zone that mediate adhesion of keratinocytes to the underlying membrane. Mutations in this gene are associated with both generalized atrophic benign and junctional epidermolysis bullosa. Two homotrimeric forms of type XVII collagen exist. The full length form is the transmembrane protein. A soluble form, referred to as either ectodomain or LAD-1, is generated by proteolytic processing of the full length form. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101109	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic kinase that is structurally similar to the yeast Ste20p kinase, which acts upstream of the stress-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade. The encoded protein can phosphorylate myelin basic protein and undergoes autophosphorylation. A caspase-cleaved fragment of the encoded protein has been shown to be capable of phosphorylating histone H2B. The particular phosphorylation catalyzed by this protein has been correlated with apoptosis, and it's possible that this protein induces the chromatin condensation observed in this process. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000122025	 This gene encodes a class III receptor tyrosine kinase that regulates hematopoiesis. The receptor consists of an extracellular domain composed of five immunoglobulin-like domains, one transmembrane region, and a cytoplasmic kinase domain split into two parts by a kinase-insert domain. The receptor is activated by binding of the fms-related tyrosine kinase 3 ligand to the extracellular domain, which induces homodimer formation in the plasma membrane leading to autophosphorylation of the receptor. The activated receptor kinase subsequently phosphorylates and activates multiple cytoplasmic effector molecules in pathways involved in apoptosis, proliferation, and differentiation of hematopoietic cells in bone marrow. Mutations that result in the constitutive activation of this receptor result in acute myeloid leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114270	 This gene encodes the alpha chain of type VII collagen. The type VII collagen fibril, composed of three identical alpha collagen chains, is restricted to the basement zone beneath stratified squamous epithelia. It functions as an anchoring fibril between the external epithelia and the underlying stroma. Mutations in this gene are associated with all forms of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa. In the absence of mutations, however, an acquired form of this disease can result from an autoimmune response made to type VII collagen. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000092054	 Muscle myosin is a hexameric protein containing 2 heavy chain subunits, 2 alkali light chain subunits, and 2 regulatory light chain subunits. This gene encodes the beta (or slow) heavy chain subunit of cardiac myosin. It is expressed predominantly in normal human ventricle. It is also expressed in skeletal muscle tissues rich in slow-twitch type I muscle fibers. Changes in the relative abundance of this protein and the alpha (or fast) heavy subunit of cardiac myosin correlate with the contractile velocity of cardiac muscle. Its expression is also altered during thyroid hormone depletion and hemodynamic overloading. Mutations in this gene are associated with familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, myosin storage myopathy, dilated cardiomyopathy, and Laing early-onset distal myopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000083937	 This gene encodes a component of the heteromeric ESCRT-III complex (Endosomal Sorting Complex Required for Transport III) that functions in the recycling or degradation of cell surface receptors. ESCRT-III functions in the concentration and invagination of ubiquitinated endosomal cargos into intralumenal vesicles. The protein encoded by this gene is found as a monomer in the cytosol or as an oligomer in ESCRT-III complexes on endosomal membranes. It is expressed in neurons of all major regions of the brain. Mutations in this gene result in one form of familial frontotemporal lobar degeneration. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000030582	 Granulins are a family of secreted, glycosylated peptides that are cleaved from a single precursor protein with 7.5 repeats of a highly conserved 12-cysteine granulin/epithelin motif. The 88 kDa precursor protein, progranulin, is also called proepithelin and PC cell-derived growth factor. Cleavage of the signal peptide produces mature granulin which can be further cleaved into a variety of active, 6 kDa peptides. These smaller cleavage products are named granulin A, granulin B, granulin C, etc. Epithelins 1 and 2 are synonymous with granulins A and B, respectively. Both the peptides and intact granulin protein regulate cell growth. However, different members of the granulin protein family may act as inhibitors, stimulators, or have dual actions on cell growth. Granulin family members are important in normal development, wound healing, and tumorigenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165280	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family that includes putative ATP-binding proteins involved in vesicle transport and fusion, 26S proteasome function, and assembly of peroxisomes. This protein, as a structural protein, is associated with clathrin, and heat-shock protein Hsc70, to form a complex. It has been implicated in a number of cellular events that are regulated during mitosis, including homotypic membrane fusion, spindle pole body function, and ubiquitin-dependent protein degradation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187736	 Double-strand breaks in DNA result from genotoxic stresses and are among the most damaging of DNA lesions. This gene encodes a DNA repair factor essential for the nonhomologous end-joining pathway, which preferentially mediates repair of double-stranded breaks. Mutations in this gene cause different kinds of severe combined immunodeficiency disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167895	 Epidermodysplasia verruciformis (EV) is an autosomal recessive dermatosis characterized by abnormal susceptibility to human papillomaviruses (HPVs) and a high rate of progression to squamous cell carcinoma on sun-exposed skin. EV is caused by mutations in either of two adjacent genes located on chromosome 17q25.3. Both of these genes encode integral membrane proteins that localize to the endoplasmic reticulum and are predicted to form transmembrane channels. This gene encodes a transmembrane channel-like protein with 8 predicted transmembrane domains and 3 leucine zipper motifs. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182040	 This gene encodes a protein that contains three ankyrin domains, a class I PDZ-binding motif and a sterile alpha motif. The encoded protein interacts with harmonin, which is associated with Usher syndrome type 1C. This protein plays a role in the development and maintenance of the auditory and visual systems and functions in the cohesion of hair bundles formed by inner ear sensory cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with Usher syndrome type 1G (USH1G). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166049	 This gene encodes a protein that is thought to function as a transcription factor. The protein is a cancer-associated antigen that can stimulate autologous T-cell responses, and it is therefore considered to be a potential immunotherapeutic target for the treatment of various hematopoietic malignancies, including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000072315	 This gene belongs to the transient receptor family. It encodes one of the seven mammalian TRPC (transient receptor potential channel) proteins. The encoded protein is a multi-pass membrane protein and is thought to form a receptor-activated non-selective calcium permeant cation channel. The protein is active alone or as a heteromultimeric assembly with TRPC1, TRPC3, and TRPC4. It also interacts with multiple proteins including calmodulin, CABP1, enkurin, Na(+)-H+ exchange regulatory factor (NHERF ), interferon-induced GTP-binding protein (MX1), ring finger protein 24 (RNF24), and SEC14 domain and spectrin repeat-containing protein 1 (SESTD1). [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000108821	 This gene encodes the pro-alpha1 chains of type I collagen whose triple helix comprises two alpha1 chains and one alpha2 chain. Type I is a fibril-forming collagen found in most connective tissues and is abundant in bone, cornea, dermis and tendon. Mutations in this gene are associated with osteogenesis imperfecta types I-IV, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIIA, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Classical type, Caffey Disease and idiopathic osteoporosis. Reciprocal translocations between chromosomes 17 and 22, where this gene and the gene for platelet-derived growth factor beta are located, are associated with a particular type of skin tumor called dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, resulting from unregulated expression of the growth factor. Two transcripts, resulting from the use of alternate polyadenylation signals, have been identified for this gene. [provided by R. Dalgleish, Feb 2008]. 
ENSG00000134460	 The interleukin 2 (IL2) receptor alpha (IL2RA) and beta (IL2RB) chains, together with the common gamma chain (IL2RG), constitute the high-affinity IL2 receptor. Homodimeric alpha chains (IL2RA) result in low-affinity receptor, while homodimeric beta (IL2RB) chains produce a medium-affinity receptor. Normally an integral-membrane protein, soluble IL2RA has been isolated and determined to result from extracellular proteolyisis. Alternately-spliced IL2RA mRNAs have been isolated, but the significance of each is presently unknown. Mutations in this gene are associated with interleukin 2 receptor alpha deficiency.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000168542	 This gene encodes the pro-alpha1 chains of type III collagen, a fibrillar collagen that is found in extensible connective tissues such as skin, lung, uterus, intestine and the vascular system, frequently in association with type I collagen. Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome types IV, and with aortic and arterial aneurysms. Two transcripts, resulting from the use of alternate polyadenylation signals, have been identified for this gene. [provided by R. Dalgleish, Feb 2008]. 
ENSG00000083093	 This gene encodes a protein that may function in tumor suppression. This protein binds to and colocalizes with the breast cancer 2 early onset protein (BRCA2) in nuclear foci and likely permits the stable intranuclear localization and accumulation of BRCA2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000158158	 This gene encodes a member of the ancient conserved domain containing protein family. Members of this protein family contain a cyclin box motif and have structural similarity to the cyclins. The encoded protein may play a role in metal ion transport. Mutations in this gene are associated with Jalili syndrome which consists of cone-rod dystrophy and amelogenesis imperfecta. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000102181	 This gene encodes a cell-surface protein that is similar to CD99. A similar protein in mouse functions as an adhesion molecule during leukocyte extravasation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000158301	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family that regulates the activity of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). The encoded protein has been shown to be capable of interacting with several GPCRs, including the M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor and the calcitonin receptor. Several transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000185920	 This gene encodes a member of the patched gene family. The encoded protein is the receptor for sonic hedgehog, a secreted molecule implicated in the formation of embryonic structures and in tumorigenesis, as well as the desert hedgehog and indian hedgehog proteins. This gene functions as a tumor suppressor. Mutations of this gene have been associated with basal cell nevus syndrome, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, trichoepitheliomas, transitional cell carcinomas of the bladder, as well as holoprosencephaly. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Additional splice variants have been described, but their full length sequences and biological validity cannot be determined currently. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000174775	 This gene belongs to the Ras oncogene family, whose members are related to the transforming genes of mammalian sarcoma retroviruses. The products encoded by these genes function in signal transduction pathways. These proteins can bind GTP and GDP, and they have intrinsic GTPase activity. This protein undergoes a continuous cycle of de- and re-palmitoylation, which regulates its rapid exchange between the plasma membrane and the Golgi apparatus. Mutations in this gene cause Costello syndrome, a disease characterized by increased growth at the prenatal stage, growth deficiency at the postnatal stage, predisposition to tumor formation, mental retardation, skin and musculoskeletal abnormalities, distinctive facial appearance and cardiovascular abnormalities. Defects in this gene are implicated in a variety of cancers, including bladder cancer, follicular thyroid cancer, and oral squamous cell carcinoma. Multiple transcript variants, which encode different isoforms, have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134571	 MYBPC3 encodes the cardiac isoform of myosin-binding protein C. Myosin-binding protein C is a myosin-associated protein found in the cross-bridge-bearing zone (C region) of A bands in striated muscle. MYBPC3, the cardiac isoform, is expressed exclussively in heart muscle. Regulatory phosphorylation of the cardiac isoform in vivo by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) upon adrenergic stimulation may be linked to modulation of cardiac contraction. Mutations in MYBPC3 are one cause of familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104320	 Mutations in this gene are associated with Nijmegen breakage syndrome, an autosomal recessive chromosomal instability syndrome characterized by microcephaly, growth retardation, immunodeficiency, and cancer predisposition. The encoded protein is a member of the MRE11/RAD50 double-strand break repair complex which consists of 5 proteins. This gene product is thought to be involved in DNA double-strand break repair and DNA damage-induced checkpoint activation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000006071	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein functions as a modulator of ATP-sensitive potassium channels and insulin release. Mutations and deficiencies in this protein have been observed in patients with hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy, an autosomal recessive disorder of unregulated and high insulin secretion. Mutations have also been associated with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type II, an autosomal dominant disease of defective insulin secretion. Alternative splicing of this gene has been observed; however, the transcript variants have not been fully described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182187	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Gamma-crystallins are a homogeneous group of highly symmetrical, monomeric proteins typically lacking connecting peptides and terminal extensions. They are differentially regulated after early development. Four gamma-crystallin genes (gamma-A through gamma-D) and three pseudogenes (gamma-E, gamma-F, gamma-G) are tandemly organized in a genomic segment as a gene cluster. Whether due to aging or mutations in specific genes, gamma-crystallins have been involved in cataract formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160801	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family 2. This protein is a receptor for parathyroid hormone (PTH) and for parathyroid hormone-like hormone (PTHLH). The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which activate adenylyl cyclase and also a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Defects in this receptor are known to be the cause of Jansen's metaphyseal chondrodysplasia (JMC), chondrodysplasia Blomstrand type (BOCD), as well as enchodromatosis. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000106682	 This gene encodes one of the translation initiation factors, which functions to stimulate the initiation of protein synthesis at the level of mRNA utilization. This gene is deleted in Williams syndrome, a multisystem developmental disorder caused by the deletion of contiguous genes at 7q11.23. Alternative splicing of this gene generates 2 transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000035403	 Vinculin is a cytoskeletal protein associated with cell-cell and cell-matrix junctions, where it is thought to function as one of several interacting proteins involved in anchoring F-actin to the membrane. Defects in VCL are the cause of cardiomyopathy dilated type 1W. Dilated cardiomyopathy is a disorder characterized by ventricular dilation and impaired systolic function, resulting in congestive heart failure and arrhythmia. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene, but the biological validity of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000213930	 Galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase (GALT) catalyzes the second step of the Leloir pathway of galactose metabolism, namely the conversion of UDP-glucose + galactose-1-phosphate to glucose-1-phosphate + UDP-galactose. The absence of this enzyme results in classic galactosemia in humans and can be fatal in the newborn period if lactose is not removed from the diet. The pathophysiology of galactosemia has not been clearly defined. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000129255	 This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein that is required for utilization of the mannose donor mannose-P-dolichol in the synthesis of lipid-linked oligosaccharides and glycosylphosphatidylinositols. Mutations in this gene result in congenital disorder of glycosylation type If. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000164818	 The protein encoded by this gene is essential for the preassembly or stability of axonemal dynein arms, and is found only in organisms with motile cilia and flagella. Mutations in this gene are associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia-18, a disorder characterized by abnormalities of motile cilia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000203485	 This gene represents a member of the formin family of proteins. It is considered a diaphanous formin due to the presence of a diaphanous inhibitory domain located at the N-terminus of the encoded protein. Studies of a similar mouse protein indicate that the protein encoded by this locus may function in polymerization and depolymerization of actin filaments. Mutations at this locus have been associated with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis 5.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000122512	 This gene is one of the PMS2 gene family members found in clusters on chromosome 7. The product of this gene is involved in DNA mismatch repair. It forms a heterodimer with MLH1 and this complex interacts with other complexes bound to mismatched bases. Mutations in this gene are associated with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer, Turcot syndrome, and are a cause of supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169738	 The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homotetramer to catalyze diacetyl reductase and L-xylulose reductase reactions. The encoded protein may play a role in the uronate cycle of glucose metabolism and in the cellular osmoregulation in the proximal renal tubules. Defects in this gene are a cause of pentosuria. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000225830	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff in collaboration with Natalie Chandler. The reference sequence was derived from AC073366.4 and AL138760.14. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000121207	 The protein encoded by this gene is a microsomal enzyme that catalyzes the esterification of all-trans-retinol into all-trans-retinyl ester, an essential reaction for the retinoid cycle in visual system and vitamin A status in liver. Mutations in this gene have been associated with early-onset severe retinal dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138686	 This gene encodes one of seven proteins that form the BBSome complex containing BBS1, BBS2, BBS4, BBS5, BBS7, BBS8 and BBS9. The BBSome complex is believed to recruit Rab8(GTP) to the primary cilium and promote ciliogenesis. The BBSome complex assembly is mediated by a complex composed of three chaperonin-like BBS proteins (BBS6, BBS10, and BBS12) and CCT/TRiC family chaperonins. Mutations in this gene are implicated in Bardet-Biedl syndrome, a genetic disorder whose symptoms include obesity, retinal degeneration, polydactyly and nephropathy; however, mutations in this gene and the BBS8 gene are thought to play a minor role and mutations in chaperonin-like BBS genes are found to be a major contributor to disease development in a multiethnic Bardet-Biedl syndrome patient population. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000139970	 This gene belongs to the family of reticulon encoding genes. Reticulons are associated with the endoplasmic reticulum, and are involved in neuroendocrine secretion or in membrane trafficking in neuroendocrine cells. This gene is considered to be a specific marker for neurological diseases and cancer, and is a potential molecular target for therapy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000138738	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor of the PR-domain protein family. It contains a PR-domain and multiple zinc finger motifs. Transcription factors of the PR-domain family are known to be involved in cell differentiation and tumorigenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166862	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP). TARPs regulate both trafficking and channel gating of the AMPA receptors. This gene is part of a functionally diverse eight-member protein subfamily of the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 family. This gene is a susceptibility locus for schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000136695	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokine family. This cytokine was shown to specifically inhibit the activation of NF-kappaB induced by interleukin 1 family, member 6 (IL1F6). This gene and eight other interleukin 1 family genes form a cytokine gene cluster on chromosome 2. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159921	 The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that initiates and regulates the biosynthesis of N-acetylneuraminic acid (NeuAc), a precursor of sialic acids. It is a rate-limiting enzyme in the sialic acid biosynthetic pathway. Sialic acid modification of cell surface molecules is crucial for their function in many biologic processes, including cell adhesion and signal transduction. Differential sialylation of cell surface molecules is also implicated in the tumorigenicity and metastatic behavior of malignant cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with sialuria, autosomal recessive inclusion body myopathy, and Nonaka myopathy. Alternative splicing of this gene results in transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000117360	 The removal of introns from nuclear pre-mRNAs occurs on complexes called spliceosomes, which are made up of 4 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP) particles and an undefined number of transiently associated splicing factors. This gene product is one of several proteins that associate with U4 and U6 snRNPs. Mutations in this gene are associated with retinitis pigmentosa-18. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143178	 This gene is a member of a phylogenetically conserved family of genes that share a common DNA-binding domain, the T-box. T-box genes encode transcription factors involved in the regulation of developmental processes. Mutations in this gene were found in patients with isolated deficiency of pituitary POMC-derived ACTH, suggesting an essential role for this gene in differentiation of the pituitary POMC lineage. ACTH deficiency is characterized by adrenal insufficiency symptoms such as weight loss, lack of appetite (anorexia), weakness, nausea, vomiting, and low blood pressure. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109132	 The DNA-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the paired family of homeobox proteins localized to the nucleus. The protein functions as a transcription factor involved in the development of several major noradrenergic neuron populations and the determination of neurotransmitter phenotype. The gene product is linked to enhancement of second messenger-mediated activation of the dopamine beta-hydroylase, c-fos promoters and several enhancers, including cyclic amp-response element and serum-response element. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163666	 This gene encodes a conserved homeobox protein that is a transcriptional repressor in the developing forebrain and pituitary gland. Mutations in this gene are associated with septooptic dysplasia, HESX1-related growth hormone deficiency, and combined pituitary hormone deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136143	 Succinyl-CoA synthetase (SCS) is a mitochondrial matrix enzyme that acts as a heterodimer, being composed of an invariant alpha subunit and a substrate-specific beta subunit. The protein encoded by this gene is an ATP-specific SCS beta subunit that dimerizes with the SCS alpha subunit to form SCS-A, an essential component of the tricarboxylic acid cycle. SCS-A hydrolyzes ATP to convert succinate to succinyl-CoA. Defects in this gene are a cause of myopathic mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome. A pseudogene of this gene has been found on chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116906	 This gene encodes an enzyme located in the peroxisomal membrane which is essential to the synthesis of ether phospholipids. Mutations in this gene are associated with rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113721	 This gene encodes a cell surface tyrosine kinase receptor for members of the platelet-derived growth factor family. These growth factors are mitogens for cells of mesenchymal origin. The identity of the growth factor bound to a receptor monomer determines whether the functional receptor is a homodimer or a heterodimer, composed of both platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha and beta polypeptides. This gene is flanked on chromosome 5 by the genes for granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and macrophage-colony stimulating factor receptor; all three genes may be implicated in the 5-q syndrome. A translocation between chromosomes 5 and 12, that fuses this gene to that of the translocation, ETV6, leukemia gene, results in chronic myeloproliferative disorder with eosinophilia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000127481	 The protein encoded by this gene is an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase that interacts with the retinoblastoma-associated protein in the nucleus and with calcium-bound calmodulin in the cytoplasm. The encoded protein appears to be a cytoskeletal component in the cytoplasm and part of the chromatin scaffold in the nucleus. In addition, this protein is a target of the human papillomavirus type 16 E7 oncoprotein. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000148834	 The protein encoded by this gene is an omega class glutathione S-transferase (GST) with glutathione-dependent thiol transferase and dehydroascorbate reductase activities. GSTs are involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics and carcinogens. The encoded protein acts as a homodimer and is found in the cytoplasm. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000205021	 This gene is one of several cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. This protein binds to several chemokine receptors including chemokine binding protein 2 and chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5 (CCR5). CCR5 is a co-receptor for HIV, and binding of this protein to CCR5 inhibits HIV entry. The copy number of this gene varies among individuals; most individuals have 1-6 copies in the diploid genome, although rare individuals have zero or more than six copies. The human genome reference assembly contains two full copies of the gene (CCL3L3 and CCL3L1) and a partial pseudogene. This record represents the more telomeric full-length gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000183873	 The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and tetrodotoxin-resistant voltage-gated sodium channel subunit. This protein is found primarily in cardiac muscle and is responsible for the initial upstroke of the action potential in an electrocardiogram. Defects in this gene are a cause of long QT syndrome type 3 (LQT3), an autosomal dominant cardiac disease. Alternative splicing results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119684	 This gene is a member of the MutL-homolog (MLH) family of DNA mismatch repair (MMR) genes. MLH genes are implicated in maintaining genomic integrity during DNA replication and after meiotic recombination. The protein encoded by this gene functions as a heterodimer with other family members. Somatic mutations in this gene frequently occur in tumors exhibiting microsatellite instability, and germline mutations have been linked to hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer type 7 (HNPCC7). Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified, but the full-length nature of only two transcript variants has been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000064933	 This gene encodes a protein belonging to the DNA mismatch repair mutL/hexB family. This protein is thought to be involved in the repair of DNA mismatches, and it can form heterodimers with MLH1, a known DNA mismatch repair protein. Mutations in this gene cause hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer type 3 (HNPCC3) either alone or in combination with mutations in other genes involved in the HNPCC phenotype, which is also known as Lynch syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131979	 This gene encodes a member of the GTP cyclohydrolase family. The encoded protein is the first and rate-limiting enzyme in tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) biosynthesis, catalyzing the conversion of GTP into 7,8-dihydroneopterin triphosphate. BH4 is an essential cofactor required by aromatic amino acid hydroxylases as well as nitric oxide synthases. Mutations in this gene are associated with malignant hyperphenylalaninemia and dopa-responsive dystonia. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described; however, not all variants give rise to a functional enzyme. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000149260	 Calpains are calcium-dependent cysteine proteases involved in signal transduction in a variety of cellular processes. A functional calpain protein consists of an invariant small subunit and 1 of a family of large subunits. CAPN5 is one of the large subunits. Unlike some of the calpains, CAPN5 and CAPN6 lack a calmodulin-like domain IV. Because of the significant similarity to Caenorhabditis elegans sex determination gene tra-3, CAPN5 is also called as HTRA3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123454	 The protein encoded by this gene is an oxidoreductase belonging to the copper type II, ascorbate-dependent monooxygenase family. It is present in the synaptic vesicles of postganglionic sympathetic neurons and converts dopamine to norepinephrine. It exists in both soluble and membrane-bound forms, depending on the absence or presence, respectively, of a signal peptide. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000155719	 The protein encoded by this gene is specifically expressed in the inner ear, and is located at the interface between the apical surface of the inner ear sensory epithelia and their overlying acellular gels. It is prposed that this protein is involved in the attachment of the inner ear acellular gels to the apical surface of the underlying nonsensory cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive deafness type 22 (DFNB22). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000170209	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinase family, and protein kinase superfamily involved in signal transduction pathways. This gene is closely linked to DRD2 gene (GeneID:1813) on chr 11, and a well studied restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) designated TaqIA, was originally associated with the DRD2 gene, however, later was determined to be located in exon 8 of ANKK1 gene (PMIDs: 18621654, 15146457), where it causes a nonconservative amino acid substitution. It is not clear if this gene plays any role in neuropsychiatric disorders previously associated with Taq1A RFLP. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000156531	 This gene is a member of the plant homeodomain (PHD)-like finger (PHF) family. It encodes a protein with two PHD-type zinc finger domains, indicating a potential role in transcriptional regulation, that localizes to the nucleolus. Mutations affecting the coding region of this gene or the splicing of the transcript have been associated with Borjeson-Forssman-Lehmann syndrome (BFLS), a disorder characterized by mental retardation, epilepsy, hypogonadism, hypometabolism, obesity, swelling of subcutaneous tissue of the face, narrow palpebral fissures, and large ears. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants, encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000133020	 Myosins are actin-based motor proteins that function in the generation of mechanical force in eukaryotic cells. Muscle myosins are heterohexamers composed of 2 myosin heavy chains and 2 pairs of nonidentical myosin light chains. This gene encodes a member of the class II or conventional myosin heavy chains, and functions in skeletal muscle contraction. This gene is predominantly expressed in fetal skeletal muscle. This gene is found in a cluster of myosin heavy chain genes on chromosome 17. A mutation in this gene results in trismus-pseudocamptodactyly syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000180902	 This gene encodes D-2hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, a mitochondrial enzyme belonging to the FAD-binding oxidoreductase/transferase type 4 family. This enzyme, which is most active in liver and kidney but also active in heart and brain, converts D-2-hydroxyglutarate to 2-ketoglutarate. Mutations in this gene are present in D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, a rare recessive neurometabolic disorder causing developmental delay, epilepsy, hypotonia, and dysmorphic features. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168778	 This gene encodes a type I membrane protein that belongs to the tectonic family. Studies in mice suggest that this protein may be involved in hedgehog signaling, and essential for ciliogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with Meckel syndrome type 8. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000121454	 This gene encodes a member of a large protein family which contains the LIM domain, a unique cysteine-rich zinc-binding domain. The encoded protein is a transcription factor involved in the control of differentiation and development of the pituitary gland. Mutations in this gene cause combined pituitary hormone deficiency 4. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000121075	 This gene is a member of a phylogenetically conserved family of genes that share a common DNA-binding domain, the T-box. T-box genes encode transcription factors involved in the regulation of developmental processes. This gene is the human homolog of mouse Tbx4, which is closely linked to Tbx2 on mouse chromosome 11. Similarly this gene, like TBX2, maps to human chromosome 17. Expression studies in mouse and chicken show that Tbx4 is expressed in developing hindlimb, but not in forelimb buds, suggesting a role for this gene in regulating limb development and specification of limb identity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000151224	 This gene catalyzes a two-step reaction that involves the transfer of the adenosyl moiety of ATP to methionine to form S-adenosylmethionine and tripolyphosphate, which is subsequently cleaved to PPi and Pi. S-adenosylmethionine is the source of methyl groups for most biological methylations. The encoded protein is found as a homotetramer (MAT I) or a homodimer (MAT III) whereas a third form, MAT II (gamma), is encoded by the MAT2A gene. Mutations in this gene are associated with methionine adenosyltransferase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197912	 This gene encodes a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial metalloprotease protein that is a member of the AAA (ATPases associated with a variety of cellular activities) protein family. Members of this protein family share an ATPase domain and have roles in diverse cellular processes including membrane trafficking, intracellular motility, organelle biogenesis, protein folding, and proteolysis. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. Mutations associated with this gene cause autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia 7. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126012	 This gene is a member of the SMCY homolog family and encodes a protein with one ARID domain, one JmjC domain, one JmjN domain and two PHD-type zinc fingers. The DNA-binding motifs suggest this protein is involved in the regulation of transcription and chromatin remodeling. Mutations in this gene have been associated with X-linked mental retardation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000108379	 The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. It encodes a protein which shows 98% amino acid identity to mouse Wnt3 protein, and 84% to human WNT3A protein, another WNT gene product. The mouse studies show the requirement of Wnt3 in primary axis formation in the mouse. Studies of the gene expression suggest that this gene may play a key role in some cases of human breast, rectal, lung, and gastric cancer through activation of the WNT-beta-catenin-TCF signaling pathway. This gene is clustered with WNT15, another family member, in the chromosome 17q21 region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000258832	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. As a type II hair keratin, it is a basic protein which heterodimerizes with type I keratins to form hair and nails. The type II hair keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q13 and are grouped into two distinct subfamilies based on structure similarity. One subfamily, consisting of KRTHB1, KRTHB3, and KRTHB6, is highly related. The other less-related subfamily includes KRTHB2, KRTHB4, and KRTHB5. All hair keratins are expressed in the hair follicle; this hair keratin, as well as KRTHB1 and KRTHB3, is found primarily in the hair cortex. Mutations in this gene and KRTHB1 have been observed in patients with a rare dominant hair disease, monilethrix. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169071	 The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor protein tyrosine kinase and type I transmembrane protein that belongs to the ROR subfamily of cell surface receptors.  The protein may be involved in the early formation of the chondrocytes and may be required for cartilage and growth plate development.  Mutations in this gene can cause brachydactyly type B, a skeletal disorder characterized by hypoplasia/aplasia of distal phalanges and nails. In addition, mutations in this gene can cause the autosomal recessive form of Robinow syndrome, which is characterized by skeletal dysplasia with generalized limb bone shortening, segmental defects of the spine, brachydactyly, and a dysmorphic facial appearance. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112320	 The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear zinc finger protein that is involved in development of the cochlea. Defects in this gene have also been linked to intellectual disability. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000036672	 This gene encodes a member of the family of de-ubiquitinating enzymes, which belongs to the peptidase C19 superfamily. The encoded protein is a ubiquitin-specific protease which is required for TNF-alpha (tumor necrosis factor alpha) -induced NF-kB (nuclear factor kB) signaling. This protein deubiquitinates polyubiquitinated target proteins such as fatty acid synthase, murine double minute 2 (MDM2), MDM4/MDMX and cyclin D1. MDM2 and MDM4 are negative regulators of the p53 tumor suppressor and cyclin D1 is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000104313	 This gene encodes a member of the eyes absent (EYA) family of proteins. The encoded protein may play a role in the developing kidney, branchial arches, eye, and ear. Mutations of this gene have been associated with branchiootorenal dysplasia syndrome, branchiootic syndrome, and sporadic cases of congenital cataracts and ocular anterior segment anomalies. A similar protein in mice can act as a transcriptional activator. Four transcript variants encoding three distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169862	 This gene encodes an adhesive junction associated protein of the armadillo/beta-catenin superfamily and is implicated in brain and eye development and cancer formation. The protein encoded by this gene promotes the disruption of E-cadherin based adherens junction to favor cell spreading upon stimulation by hepatocyte growth factor. This gene is overexpressed in prostate adenocarcinomas and is associated with decreased expression of tumor suppressor E-cadherin in this tissue. This gene resides in a region of the short arm of chromosome 5 that is deleted in Cri du Chat syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000136573	 This gene encodes a nonreceptor tyrosine-kinase of the src family of proto-oncogenes that are typically involved in cell proliferation and differentiation. The protein has a role in B-cell receptor signaling and B-cell development. The protein also stimulates insulin synthesis and secretion in response to glucose and enhances the expression of several pancreatic beta-cell transcription factors. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000095015	 The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine kinase and is part of some signal transduction cascades, including the ERK and JNK kinase pathways as well as the NF-kappa-B pathway. The encoded protein is activated by autophosphorylation and requires magnesium as a cofactor in phosphorylating other proteins. This protein has E3 ligase activity conferred by a plant homeodomain (PHD) in its N-terminus and phospho-kinase activity conferred by a kinase domain in its C-terminus. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000115355	 This gene encodes a member of the Girdin family of coiled-coil domain containing proteins. The encoded protein is an actin-binding protein that is activated by the serine/threonine kinase Akt and plays a role in cytoskeleton remodeling and cell migration. The encoded protein also enhances Akt signaling by mediating phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-dependent activation of Akt by growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases and G protein-coupled receptors. Increased expression of this gene and phosphorylation of the encoded protein may play a role in cancer metastasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000196459	 The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be part of a large multi-subunit complex involved in the targeting and fusion of endoplasmic reticulum-to-Golgi transport vesicles with their acceptor compartment. In addition, the encoded protein can bind c-myc promoter-binding protein 1 and block its transcriptional repression capability. Mutations in this gene are a cause of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda (SEDT). A processed pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 19, and other pseudogenes are found on chromosomes 8 and Y. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000188690	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the fourth step of porphyrin biosynthesis in the heme biosynthetic pathway. Defects in this gene cause congenital erythropoietic porphyria (Gunther's disease). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100345	 This gene encodes a conventional non-muscle myosin; this protein should not be confused with the unconventional myosin-9a or 9b (MYO9A or MYO9B). The encoded protein is a myosin IIA heavy chain that contains an IQ domain and a myosin head-like domain which is involved in several important functions, including cytokinesis, cell motility and maintenance of cell shape. Defects in this gene have been associated with non-syndromic sensorineural deafness autosomal dominant type 17, Epstein syndrome, Alport syndrome with macrothrombocytopenia, Sebastian syndrome, Fechtner syndrome and macrothrombocytopenia with progressive sensorineural deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000071127	 This gene encodes a protein containing 9 WD repeats. WD repeats are approximately 30- to 40-amino acid domains containing several conserved residues, mostly including a trp-asp at the C-terminal end. WD domains are involved in protein-protein interactions. The encoded protein may help induce the disassembly of actin filaments. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188158	 This gene encodes a protein containing four conserved nuclear localization signals. The encoded protein may function during the development of the eyes, teeth, and brain. Mutations in this gene have been shown to cause Nance-Horan syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000115414	 This gene encodes fibronectin, a glycoprotein present in a soluble dimeric form in plasma, and in a dimeric or multimeric form at the cell surface and in extracellular matrix. Fibronectin is involved in cell adhesion and migration processes including embryogenesis, wound healing, blood coagulation, host defense, and metastasis. The gene has three regions subject to alternative splicing, with the potential to produce 20 different transcript variants. However, the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133104	 This gene encodes a protein containing a MIT (Microtubule Interacting and Trafficking molecule) domain, and is implicated in regulating endosomal trafficking and mitochondria function. The protein localizes to mitochondria and partially co-localizes with microtubules. Stimulation with epidermal growth factor (EGF) results in protein translocation to the plasma membrane, and the protein functions in the degradation and intracellular trafficking of EGF receptor. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. Mutations associated with this gene cause autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia 20 (Troyer syndrome). [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000188508	 This gene encodes a protein which may function in the regulation of keratinocyte differentiation and maintenance of stratified epithelia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000092841	 Myosin is a hexameric ATPase cellular motor protein. It is composed of two heavy chains, two nonphosphorylatable alkali light chains, and two phosphorylatable regulatory light chains. This gene encodes a myosin alkali light chain that is expressed in smooth muscle and non-muscle tissues. Genomic sequences representing several pseudogenes have been described and two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184557	 This gene encodes a member of the STAT-induced STAT inhibitor (SSI), also known as suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS), family. SSI family members are cytokine-inducible negative regulators of cytokine signaling. The expression of this gene is induced by various cytokines, including IL6, IL10, and interferon (IFN)-gamma. The protein encoded by this gene can bind to JAK2 kinase, and inhibit the activity of JAK2 kinase. Studies of the mouse counterpart of this gene suggested the roles of this gene in the negative regulation of fetal liver hematopoiesis, and placental development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000086717	 This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein phosphatase with EF-hand motif family. The protein contains a protein phosphatase catalytic domain, and at least two EF-hand calcium-binding motifs in its C terminus. Although its substrate(s) is unknown, the encoded protein has been suggested to play a role in specific sensory neuron function and/or development. This gene shares high sequence similarity with the Drosophila retinal degeneration C (rdgC) gene. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants, each encoding a distinct isoform, have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000189369	 This gene encodes a GTPase that belongs to the GTP-binding elongation factor family. The encoded protein is a polypeptide release factor that complexes with eukaryotic peptide chain release factor 1 to mediate translation termination. This protein may also be involved in mRNA stability.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000102362	 This gene encodes a member of the synaptotagmin like protein family. Members of this family are characterized by an N-terminal Rab27 binding domain and C-terminal tandem C2 domains. The encoded protein binds specific small Rab GTPases and is involved in intracellular membrane trafficking. This protein binds Rab27 and may be involved in inhibiting dense core vesicle exocytosis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000172534	 This gene is a member of the host cell factor family and encodes a protein with five Kelch repeats, a fibronectin-like motif, and six HCF repeats, each of which contains a highly specific cleavage signal. This nuclear coactivator is proteolytically cleaved at one of the six possible sites, resulting in the creation of an N-terminal chain and the corresponding C-terminal chain. The final form of this protein consists of noncovalently bound N- and C-terminal chains. The protein is involved in control of the cell cycle and transcriptional regulation during herpes simplex virus infection. Alternatively spliced variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described; however, not all variants have been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123496	 The protein encoded by this gene is closely related to Il13RA1, a subuint of the interleukin 13 receptor complex. This protein binds IL13 with high affinity, but lacks cytoplasmic domain, and does not appear to function as a signal mediator. It is reported to play a role in the internalization of IL13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147065	 Moesin (for membrane-organizing extension spike protein) is a member of the ERM family which includes ezrin and radixin. ERM proteins appear to function as cross-linkers between plasma membranes and actin-based cytoskeletons. Moesin is localized to filopodia and other membranous protrusions that are important for cell-cell recognition and signaling and for cell movement. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000068024	 Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alters chromosome structure and affects transcription factor access to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to class II of the histone deacetylase/acuc/apha family. It possesses histone deacetylase activity and represses transcription when tethered to a promoter. This protein does not bind DNA directly, but through transcription factors MEF2C and MEF2D. It seems to interact in a multiprotein complex with RbAp48 and HDAC3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182890	 The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the mitochondrion and acts as a homohexamer to recycle glutamate during neurotransmission. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the reversible oxidative deamination of glutamate to alpha-ketoglutarate. This gene is intronless.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000123570	 This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of RAS small guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-binding proteins that regulate membrane trafficking. The encoded protein may be involved in endosome-to-Golgi transport. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000172243	 This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. The encoded glycoprotein is a small type II membrane receptor with an extracellular C-type lectin-like domain fold and a cytoplasmic domain with an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif. It functions as a pattern-recognition receptor that recognizes a variety of beta-1,3-linked and beta-1,6-linked glucans from fungi and plants, and in this way plays a role in innate immune response. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. This gene is closely linked to other CTL/CTLD superfamily members on chromosome 12p13 in the natural killer gene complex region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138136	 This gene and the orthologous mouse gene were found by their homology to the Drosophila lady bird early and late homeobox genes. In the mouse, this gene is a key regulator of muscle precursor cell migration and is required for the acquisition of dorsal identities of forelimb muscles. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136280	 This gene encodes a scaffold protein that functions in the stress-activated p38 Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling cascade. The protein interacts with SMAD specific E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (also known as SMURF1) via a phosphotyrosine binding domain to promote RhoA degradation. The protein is required for normal cytoskeletal structure, cell-cell interactions, and lumen formation in endothelial cells. Mutations in this gene result in cerebral cavernous malformations. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSGR0000198223	 The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha subunit of the heterodimeric receptor for colony stimulating factor 2, a cytokine which controls the production, differentiation, and function of granulocytes and macrophages. The encoded protein is a member of the cytokine family of receptors. This gene is found in the pseudoautosomal region (PAR) of the X and Y chromosomes. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, with some of the isoforms being membrane-bound and others being soluble. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163755	 This gene encodes a protein containing a potential clathrin-binding motif, consensus dileucine signals, and tyrosine-based sorting signals for targeting to vesicles of lysosomal lineage. The encoded protein may play a role in organelle biogenesis associated with melanosomes, platelet dense granules, and lysosomes. Mutations in this gene are associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 3. Alternate splice variants exist, but their full length sequence has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000006534	 The aldehyde dehydrogenases are a family of isozymes that may play a major role in the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism and lipid peroxidation. This particular gene spans about 20 kb of genomic DNA and is composed of 9 coding exons. The gene is highly expressed in kidney and lung. The functional significance of this gene as well as the cellular localization of its product are presently unknown. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000171345	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin family. The keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into cytokeratins and hair keratins. The type I cytokeratins consist of acidic proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains. Unlike its related family members, this smallest known acidic cytokeratin is not paired with a basic cytokeratin in epithelial cells. It is specifically expressed in the periderm, the transiently superficial layer that envelopes the developing epidermis. The type I cytokeratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171431	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin family. The keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into cytokeratins and hair keratins. The type I cytokeratins consist of acidic proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains. This cytokeratin is a major cellular protein of mature enterocytes and goblet cells and is specifically expressed in the gastric and intestinal mucosa. The type I cytokeratin genes are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108244	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin family. The keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into cytokeratins and hair keratins. The type I cytokeratins consist of acidic proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains. The type I cytokeratin genes are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126524	 This gene encodes a member of a highly conserved protein family that exists from archaea to vertebrates and plants. The encoded protein may function in RNA metabolism. Mutations within this gene are associated with Shwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome. An alternative transcript has been described, but its biological nature has not been determined. This gene has a closely linked pseudogene that is distally located. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000152457	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein that is involved in V(D)J recombination and DNA repair. The protein has single-strand-specific 5'-3' exonuclease activity; it also exhibits endonuclease activity on 5' and 3' overhangs and hairpins when complexed with protein kinase, DNA-activated, catalytic polypeptide. Mutations in this gene cause Athabascan-type severe combined immunodeficiency (SCIDA). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000177455	 Lymphocytes proliferate and differentiate in response to various concentrations of different antigens. The ability of the B cell to respond in a specific, yet sensitive manner to the various antigens is achieved with the use of low-affinity antigen receptors. This gene encodes a cell surface molecule which assembles with the antigen receptor of B lymphocytes in order to decrease the threshold for antigen receptor-dependent stimulation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197766	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the trypsin family of peptidases. The encoded protein is a component of the alternative complement pathway best known for its role in humoral suppression of infectious agents. This protein is also a serine protease that is secreted by adipocytes into the bloodstream. Finally, the encoded protein has a high level of expression in fat, suggesting a role for adipose tissue in immune system biology. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105639	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Janus kinase (JAK) family of tyrosine kinases involved in cytokine receptor-mediated intracellular signal transduction. It is predominantly expressed in immune cells and transduces a signal in response to its activation via tyrosine phosphorylation by interleukin receptors. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal SCID (severe combined immunodeficiency disease). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197299	 The Bloom syndrome gene product is related to the RecQ subset of DExH box-containing DNA helicases and has both DNA-stimulated ATPase and ATP-dependent DNA helicase activities. Mutations causing Bloom syndrome delete or alter helicase motifs and may disable the 3'-5' helicase activity.  The normal protein may act to suppress inappropriate recombination. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173757	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT family of transcription factors. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers that translocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators. This protein mediates the signal transduction triggered by various cell ligands, such as IL2, IL4, CSF1, and different growth hormones. It has been shown to be involved in diverse biological processes, such as TCR signaling, apoptosis, adult mammary gland development, and sexual dimorphism of liver gene expression. This gene was found to fuse to retinoic acid receptor-alpha (RARA) gene in a small subset of acute promyelocytic leukemias (APLL). The dysregulation of the signaling pathways mediated by this protein may be the cause of the APLL. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160255	 The product of this gene belongs to the integrin beta chain family of proteins. Integrins are integral cell-surface proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain. This gene encodes the integrin beta chain beta 2. A given chain may combine with multiple partners resulting in different integrins. For example, beta 2 combines with the alpha L chain to form the integrin LFA-1, and combines with the alpha M chain to form the integrin Mac-1. Integrins are known to participate in cell adhesion as well as cell-surface mediated signalling. Defects in this gene are the cause of leukocyte adhesion deficiency type I (LAD1). Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101017	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor has been found to be essential in mediating a broad variety of immune and inflammatory responses including T cell-dependent immunoglobulin class switching, memory B cell development, and germinal center formation. AT-hook transcription factor AKNA is reported to coordinately regulate the expression of this receptor and its ligand, which may be important for homotypic cell interactions. Adaptor protein TNFR2 interacts with this receptor and serves as a mediator of the signal transduction. The interaction of this receptor and its ligand is found to be necessary for amyloid-beta-induced microglial activation, and thus is thought to be an early event in Alzheimer disease pathogenesis. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000002016	 The protein encoded by this gene shares similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad52, a protein important for DNA double-strand break repair and homologous recombination. This gene product was shown to bind single-stranded DNA ends, and mediate the DNA-DNA interaction necessary for the annealing of complementary DNA strands. It was also found to interact with DNA recombination protein RAD51, which suggested its role in RAD51 related DNA recombination and repair. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182500	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane calcium channel subunit that is activated by the calcium sensor STIM1 when calcium stores are depleted. This type of channel is the primary way for calcium influx into T-cells. Defects in this gene are a cause of immune dysfunction with T-cell inactivation due to calcium entry defect type 1 (IDTICED1). [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000156413	 The protein encoded by this gene is a Golgi stack membrane protein that is involved in the creation of sialyl-Lewis X, an E-selectin ligand. Mutations in this gene are a cause of fucosyltransferase-6 deficiency. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164690	 This gene encodes a protein that is instrumental in patterning the early embryo. It has been implicated as the key inductive signal in patterning of the ventral neural tube, the anterior-posterior limb axis, and the ventral somites. Of three human proteins showing sequence and functional similarity to the sonic hedgehog protein of Drosophila, this protein is the most similar. The protein is made as a precursor that is autocatalytically cleaved; the N-terminal portion is soluble and contains the signalling activity while the C-terminal portion is involved in precursor processing. More importantly, the C-terminal product covalently attaches a cholesterol moiety to the N-terminal product, restricting the N-terminal product to the cell surface and preventing it from freely diffusing throughout the developing embryo. Defects in this protein or in its signalling pathway are a cause of holoprosencephaly (HPE), a disorder in which the developing forebrain fails to correctly separate into right and left hemispheres. HPE is manifested by facial deformities. It is also thought that mutations in this gene or in its signalling pathway may be responsible for VACTERL syndrome, which is characterized by vertebral defects, anal atresia, tracheoesophageal fistula with esophageal atresia, radial and renal dysplasia, cardiac anomalies, and limb abnormalities. Additionally, mutations in a long range enhancer located approximately 1 megabase upstream of this gene disrupt limb patterning and can result in preaxial polydactyly. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101577	 Mouse studies suggest that this gene functions during normal adipose tissue development and may play a role in human triglyceride metabolism. This gene represents a candidate gene for human lipodystrophy, characterized by loss of body fat, fatty liver, hypertriglyceridemia, and insulin resistance. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000067182	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This protein is one of the major receptors for the tumor necrosis factor-alpha. This receptor can activate NF-kappaB, mediate apoptosis, and function as a regulator of inflammation. Antiapoptotic protein BCL2-associated athanogene 4 (BAG4/SODD) and adaptor proteins TRADD and TRAF2 have been shown to interact with this receptor, and thus play regulatory roles in the signal transduction mediated by the receptor. Germline mutations of the extracellular domains of this receptor were found to be associated with the autosomal dominant periodic fever syndrome. The impaired receptor clearance is thought to be a mechanism of the disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000103089	 This gene encodes a protein that catalyzes the synthesis of 2-hydroxysphingolipids, a subset of sphingolipids that contain 2-hydroxy fatty acids. Sphingolipids play roles in many cellular processes and their structural diversity arises from modification of the hydrophobic ceramide moiety, such as by 2-hydroxylation of the N-acyl chain, and the existence of many different head groups. Mutations in this gene have been associated with leukodystrophy dysmyelinating with spastic paraparesis with or without dystonia. 
ENSG00000167207	 This gene is a member of the Nod1/Apaf-1 family and encodes a protein with two caspase recruitment (CARD) domains and six leucine-rich repeats (LRRs). The protein is primarily expressed in the peripheral blood leukocytes. It plays a role in the immune response to intracellular bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) by recognizing the muramyl dipeptide (MDP) derived from them and activating the NFKB protein. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Crohn disease and Blau syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000155256	 This gene encodes a protein with several transmembrane domains, a Rab11-binding domain and a lipid-binding FYVE finger domain. The encoded protein appears to promote neurite formation. A mutation in this gene has been reported to be associated with hereditary spastic paraplegia, however the pathogenicity of the mutation, which may simply represent a polymorphism, is unclear. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000103313	 This gene encodes a protein, also known as pyrin or marenostrin, that is an important modulator of innate immunity. Mutations in this gene are associated with Mediterranean fever, a hereditary periodic fever syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105397	 This gene encodes a member of the tyrosine kinase and, more specifically, the Janus kinases (JAKs) protein families. This protein associates with the cytoplasmic domain of type I and type II cytokine receptors and promulgate cytokine signals by phosphorylating receptor subunits. It is also component of both the type I and type III interferon signaling pathways. As such, it may play a role in anti-viral immunity. A mutation in this gene has been associated with hyperimmunoglobulin E syndrome (HIES) - a primary immunodeficiency characterized by elevated serum immunoglobulin E. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000155275	 The protein encoded by this gene is a putative tRNA methyltransferase found in the cytoplasm. Defects in this gene may be a cause of partial epilepsy with pericentral spikes (PEPS), but that has not been proven definitively. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000248098	 The branched-chain alpha-keto acid (BCAA) dehydrogenase (BCKD) complex is an innter mitochondrial enzyme complex that catalyzes the second major step in the catabolism of the branched-chain amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine. The BCKD complex consists of three catalytic components: a heterotetrameric (alpha2-beta2) branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase (E1), a dihydrolipoyl transacylase (E2), and a dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (E3). This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the decarboxylase (E1) component. Mutations in this gene result in maple syrup urine disease, type IA. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000015285	  The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) family of proteins share similar domain structure, and are involved in transduction of signals from receptors on the cell surface to the actin cytoskeleton.  The presence of a number of different motifs suggests that they are regulated by a number of different stimuli, and interact with multiple proteins.  Recent studies have demonstrated that these proteins, directly or indirectly, associate with the small GTPase, Cdc42, known to regulate formation of actin filaments, and the cytoskeletal organizing complex, Arp2/3. Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome is a rare, inherited, X-linked, recessive disease characterized by immune dysregulation and microthrombocytopenia, and is caused by mutations in the WAS gene. The WAS gene product is a cytoplasmic protein, expressed exclusively in hematopoietic cells, which show signalling and cytoskeletal abnormalities in WAS patients.  A transcript variant arising as a result of alternative promoter usage, and containing a different 5' UTR sequence, has been described, however, its full-length nature is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133111	 Major histocompatibility (MHC) class II molecules are transmembrane proteins that have a central role in development and control of the immune system. The protein encoded by this gene, along with regulatory factor X-associated ankyrin-containing protein and regulatory factor-5, forms a complex that binds to the X box motif of certain MHC class II gene promoters and activates their transcription. Once bound to the promoter, this complex associates with the non-DNA-binding factor MHC class II transactivator, which controls the cell type specificity and inducibility of MHC class II gene expression. Mutations in this gene have been linked to bare lymphocyte syndrome type II, complementation group D. Transcript variants utilizing different polyA signals have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000141524	 Epidermodysplasia verruciformis (EV) is an autosomal recessive dermatosis characterized by abnormal susceptibility to human papillomaviruses (HPVs) and a high rate of progression to squamous cell carcinoma on sun-exposed skin. EV is caused by mutations in either of two adjacent genes located on chromosome 17q25.3. Both of these genes encode integral membrane proteins that localize to the endoplasmic reticulum and are predicted to form transmembrane channels. This gene encodes a transmembrane channel-like protein with 10 transmembrane domains and 2 leucine zipper motifs. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110719	 Through alternate splicing, this gene encodes two proteins with similarity to subunits of the vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase) but the encoded proteins seem to have different functions. V-ATPase is a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, and receptor-mediated endocytosis. V-ATPase is comprised of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. Mutations in this gene are associated with infantile malignant osteopetrosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115310	 This gene belongs to the family of reticulon encoding genes. Reticulons are associated with the endoplasmic reticulum, and are involved in neuroendocrine secretion or in membrane trafficking in neuroendocrine cells. The product of this gene is a potent neurite outgrowth inhibitor which may also help block the regeneration of the central nervous system in higher vertebrates. Alternatively spliced transcript variants derived both from differential splicing and differential promoter usage and encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138311	 This gene encodes several isoforms which have different expression patterns and functions. Mutation in this gene is associated with uric acid nephrolithiasis (UAN). Alternatively spliced variants, encoding distinct proteins, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000136732	 Glycophorin C (GYPC) is an integral membrane glycoprotein. It is a minor species carried by human erythrocytes, but plays an important role in regulating the mechanical stability of red cells. A number of glycophorin C mutations have been described. The Gerbich and Yus phenotypes are due to deletion of exon 3 and 2, respectively. The Webb and Duch antigens, also known as glycophorin D, result from single point mutations of the glycophorin C gene. The glycophorin C protein has very little homology with glycophorins A and B. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the GYPC*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000177697	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins and other transmembrane 4 superfamily proteins. It is involved in cellular processes including cell adhesion and may regulate integrin trafficking and/or function. This protein enhances cell motility, invasion and metastasis of cancer cells. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the CD151*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000240583	 Aquaporins are a family of small integral membrane proteins related to the major intrinsic protein (MIP or AQP0). This gene encodes an aquaporin which functions as a molecular water channel protein. It is a homotetramer with 6 bilayer spanning domains and N-glycosylation sites. The protein physically resembles channel proteins and is abundant in erythrocytes and renal tubes. The gene encoding this aquaporin is a possible candidate for disorders involving imbalance in ocular fluid movement. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the AQP1*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000111339	 This gene encodes a protein that contains a mono-ADP-ribosylation (ART) motif. It is a member of the ADP-ribosyltransferase gene family but enzymatic activity has not been demonstrated experimentally. Antigens of the Dombrock blood group system are located on the gene product, which is glycosylphosphatidylinosotol-anchored to the erythrocyte membrane. Allelic variants, some of which lead to adverse transfusion reactions, are known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the ART4*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000165272	 This gene encodes the water channel protein aquaporin 3. Aquaporins are a family of small integral membrane proteins related to the major intrinsic protein, also known as aquaporin 0. Aquaporin 3 is localized at the basal lateral membranes of collecting duct cells in the kidney. In addition to its water channel function, aquaporin 3 has been found to facilitate the transport of nonionic small solutes such as urea and glycerol, but to a smaller degree. It has been suggested that water channels can be functionally heterogeneous and possess water and solute permeation mechanisms. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the AQP3*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000127152	 This gene encodes a C2H2-type zinc finger protein and is closely related to BCL11A, a gene whose translocation may be associated with B-cell malignancies. The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode distinct isoforms, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000047597	 This locus controls the synthesis of the Kell blood group 'precursor substance' (Kx). Mutations in this gene have been associated with McLeod syndrome, an X-linked, recessive disorder characterized by abnormalities in the neuromuscular and hematopoietic systems. The encoded protein has structural characteristics of prokaryotic and eukaryotic membrane transport proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171954	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19 and encodes an enzyme thought to play a role in the 12(R)-lipoxygenase pathway. Mutations in this gene are the cause of ichthyosis lamellar type 3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186684	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165029	 The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.  ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes.  ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).  This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily.  Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes.  With cholesterol as its substrate, this protein functions as a cholesteral efflux pump in the cellular lipid removal pathway.  Mutations in this gene have been associated with Tangier's disease and familial high-density lipoprotein deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131269	 The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance as well as antigen presentation. This gene encodes a half-transporter involved in the transport of heme from the mitochondria to the cytosol. With iron/sulfur cluster precursors as its substrates, this protein may play a role in metal homeostasis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial iron accumulation and isodicentric (X)(q13) and sideroblastic anemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]. 
ENSG00000160870	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This enzyme hydroxylates testosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone 3-sulphate, which is involved in the formation of estriol during pregnancy. The enzyme also metabolizes some drugs such as aflatoxin B1. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 7q21.1. Transcript variants have been described, but it is not known whether these transcripts are normally produced. This gene undergoes readthrough transcription with the downstream CYP3AP1 pseudogene, resulting in an isoform with a novel C-terminus, as represented in GeneID:100861540. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000137869	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and catalyzes the last steps of estrogen biosynthesis, three successive hydroxylations of the A ring of androgens. Mutations in this gene can result in either increased or decreased aromatase activity; the associated phenotypes suggest that estrogen functions both as a sex steroid hormone and in growth or differentiation. The gene expresses two transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130202	 This gene encodes a single-pass type I membrane glycoprotein with two Ig-like C2-type domains and an Ig-like V-type domain. This protein is one of the plasma membrane components of adherens junctions. It also serves as an entry for certain mutant strains of herpes simplex virus and pseudorabies virus, and it is involved in cell to cell spreading of these viruses. Variations in this gene have been associated with differences in the severity of multiple sclerosis. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106327	 This gene encodes a single-pass type II membrane protein, which is a member of the transferrin receptor-like family. This protein mediates cellular uptake of transferrin-bound iron, and may be involved in iron metabolism, hepatocyte function and erythrocyte differentiation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hereditary hemochromatosis type III. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000060069	 This gene encodes a protein which interacts with the carboxy-terminus of the RAP74 subunit of transcription initiation factor TFIIF, and functions as a phosphatase that processively dephosphorylates the C-terminus of POLR2A (a subunit of RNA polymerase II), making it available for initiation of gene expression. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital cataracts, facial dysmorphism and neuropathy syndrome (CCFDN). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000070413	 Deletions of the 22q11.2 have been associated with a wide range of developmental defects (notably DiGeorge syndrome, velocardiofacial syndrome, conotruncal anomaly face syndrome and isolated conotruncal cardiac defects) classified under the acronym CATCH 22. The DGCR2 gene encodes a novel putative adhesion receptor protein, which could play a role in neural crest cells migration, a process which has been proposed to be altered in DiGeorge syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000139180	 The encoded protein is a subunit of the hydrophobic protein fraction of the NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I), the first enzyme complex in the electron transport chain located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 12. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000102359	 This gene encodes a secreted protein that contains three sushi repeat motifs. The encoded protein may play a role in the development of speech and language centers in the brain. This protein may also be involved in angiogenesis. Mutations in this gene are the cause of bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria, rolandic epilepsy, speech dyspraxia and mental retardation. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000177485	 This gene encodes a transcriptional regulator with bimodal DNA-binding specificity, which binds to methylated CGCG and also to the non-methylated consensus KAISO-binding site TCCTGCNA. The protein contains an N-terminal POZ/BTB domain and 3 C-terminal zinc finger motifs. It recruits the N-CoR repressor complex to promote histone deacetylation and the formation of repressive chromatin structures in target gene promoters. It may contribute to the repression of target genes of the Wnt signaling pathway, and may also activate transcription of a subset of target genes by the recruitment of catenin delta-2 (CTNND2). Its interaction with catenin delta-1 (CTNND1) inhibits binding to both methylated and non-methylated DNA. It also interacts directly with the nuclear import receptor Importin-alpha2 (also known as karyopherin alpha2 or RAG cohort 1), which may mediate nuclear import of this protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000102409	 This gene is a member of the brain expressed X-linked gene family. The proteins encoded by some of the other members of this family act as transcription elongation factors which allow RNA polymerase II to escape pausing during elongation. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000110756	 This gene encodes a protein that may play a role in organelle biogenesis associated with melanosomes, platelet dense granules, and lysosomes. This protein interacts with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome 6 protein and may interact with the cytoplasmic domain of integrin, alpha-3. Mutations in this gene are associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 5. Multiple transcript variants encoding two distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000129675	 Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processes that are initiated by extracellular stimuli that work through G protein coupled receptors. The encoded protein belongs to a family of cytoplasmic proteins that activate the Ras-like family of Rho proteins by exchanging bound GDP for GTP. It may form a complex with G proteins and stimulate Rho-dependent signals. This protein is activated by PI3-kinase. Mutations in this gene can cause X-chromosomal non-specific mental retardation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198087	 This gene encodes a scaffolding molecule that regulates the actin cytoskeleton. The protein directly interacts with filamentous actin and a variety of cell membrane proteins through multiple actin binding sites, SH3 domains, and a proline-rich region containing binding sites for SH3 domains. The cytoplasmic protein localizes to membrane ruffles, lipid rafts, and the leading edges of cells. It is implicated in dynamic actin remodeling and membrane trafficking that occurs during receptor endocytosis and cytokinesis. Haploinsufficiency of this gene is implicated in susceptibility to glomerular disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000068438	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the S-adenosylmethionine-binding protein family. It is a nucleolar protein and may be involved in the processing and modification of rRNA. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196743	 This gene encodes a small glycolipid transport protein which acts as a substrate specific co-factor for the lysosomal enzyme beta-hexosaminidase A. Beta-hexosaminidase A, together with GM2 ganglioside activator, catalyzes the degradation of the ganglioside GM2, and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines. Mutations in this gene result in GM2-gangliosidosis type AB or the AB variant of Tay-Sachs disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000113163	 This gene encodes a kinase that specifically phosphorylates the N-terminal region of the non-collagenous domain of the alpha 3 chain of type IV collagen, known as the Goodpasture antigen. Goodpasture disease is the result of an autoimmune response directed at this antigen. One isoform of this protein is also involved in ceramide intracellular transport. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140937	 This gene encodes a type II classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily, integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion. Mature cadherin proteins are composed of a large N-terminal extracellular domain, a single membrane-spanning domain, and a small, highly conserved C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. Type II (atypical) cadherins are defined based on their lack of a HAV cell adhesion recognition sequence specific to type I cadherins. Expression of this particular cadherin in osteoblastic cell lines, and its upregulation during differentiation, suggests a specific function in bone development and maintenance. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186575	 This gene encodes a protein that is similar to some members of the ERM (ezrin, radixin, moesin) family of proteins that are thought to link cytoskeletal components with proteins in the cell membrane. This gene product has been shown to interact with cell-surface proteins, proteins involved in cytoskeletal dynamics and proteins involved in regulating ion transport. This gene is expressed at high levels during embryonic development; in adults, significant expression is found in Schwann cells, meningeal cells, lens and nerve. Mutations in this gene are associated with neurofibromatosis type II which is characterized by nervous system and skin tumors and ocular abnormalities. Two predominant isoforms and a number of minor isoforms are produced by alternatively spliced transcripts. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170113	 This gene encodes a magnesium transporter that associates with early endosomes and the cell surface in a variety of neuronal and epithelial cells. This protein may play a role in nervous system development and maintenance. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia 6. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000213923	 The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinase and a member of the casein kinase I protein family, whose members have been implicated in the control of cytoplasmic and nuclear processes, including DNA replication and repair. The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm as a monomer and can phosphorylate a variety of proteins, including itself. This protein has been shown to phosphorylate period, a circadian rhythm protein. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000072803	 This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Fbws class and, in addition to an F-box, contains multiple WD40 repeats. This gene contains at least 14 exons, and its alternative splicing generates 3 transcript variants diverging at the presence/absence of two alternate exons. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124614	 Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 40S subunit. The protein belongs to the S10E family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. Variable expression of this gene in colorectal cancers compared to adjacent normal tissues has been observed, although no correlation between the level of expression and the severity of the disease has been found. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. Naturally occurring read-through transcription occurs between this locus and the neighboring locus NUDT3 (nudix (nucleoside diphosphate linked moiety X)-type motif 3). 
ENSG00000197728	 Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 40S subunit. The protein belongs to the S26E family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000180318	 The specific function of this gene has yet to be determined in humans; however,  in rodents, it is necessary for survival of the forebrain mesenchyme and may  also be involved in development of the cervix.  Mutations in the mouse gene lead  to neural tube defects such as acrania and meroanencephaly. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106025	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000156970	 This gene encodes a kinase involved in spindle checkpoint function. The protein has been localized to the kinetochore and plays a role in the inhibition of the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), delaying the onset of anaphase and ensuring proper chromosome segregation. Impaired spindle checkpoint function has been found in many forms of cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000075624	 This gene encodes one of six different actin proteins. Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in cell motility, structure, and integrity. This actin is a major constituent of the contractile apparatus and one of the two nonmuscle cytoskeletal actins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000036473	 This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial matrix enzyme. Missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations in this enzyme lead to ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency, which causes hyperammonemia. Since the gene for this enzyme maps close to that for Duchenne muscular dystrophy, it may play a role in that disease also. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116745	 This gene encodes a protein which is located in the retinal pigment epithelium and is involved in the production of 11-cis retinal and in visual pigment regeneration. There are two forms of this protein, a soluble form called sRPE65, and a palmitoylated, membrane-bound form known as mRPE65. mRPE65 serves as the palmitoyl donor for lecithin retinol acyl transferase (LRAT), the enzyme that catalyzes the vitamin A to all trans retinol step of the chromophore regeneration process. Both mRPE65 and sRPE65 also serve as regulatory proteins, with the ratio and concentrations of these molecules playing a role in the inhibition of 11-cis retinal synthesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Leber congenital amaurosis type 2 (LCA2) and retinitis pigmentosa. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000103811	 The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase important in the overall degradation of lysosomal proteins. It is composed of a dimer of disulfide-linked heavy and light chains, both produced from a single protein precursor. The encoded protein, which belongs to the peptidase C1 protein family, can act both as an aminopeptidase and as an endopeptidase. Increased expression of this gene has been correlated with malignant progression of prostate tumors. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000008086	 This gene is a member of Ser/Thr protein kinase family and encodes a phosphorylated protein with protein kinase activity. Mutations in this gene have been associated with X-linked infantile spasm syndrome (ISSX), also known as X-linked West syndrome, and Rett syndrome (RTT). Alternate transcriptional splice variants have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134318	 The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine kinase that regulates cytokinesis, smooth muscle contraction, the formation of actin stress fibers and focal adhesions, and the activation of the c-fos serum response element. This protein, which is an isozyme of ROCK1 is a target for the small GTPase Rho. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000174963	 This gene encodes a member of the ZIC family of C2H2-type zinc finger proteins. Members of this family are important during development, and have been associated with X-linked visceral heterotaxy and holoprosencephaly type 5. This gene is closely linked to the gene encoding zinc finger protein of the cerebellum 1, a related family member on chromosome 3. Heterozygous deletion of these linked genes is involved in Dandy-Walker malformation, which is a congenital cerebellar malformation. Multiple transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000108684	 This gene encodes a member of the degenerin/epithelial sodium channel (DEG/ENaC) superfamily. The members of this family are amiloride-sensitive sodium channels that contain intracellular N and C termini, 2 hydrophobic transmembrane regions, and a large extracellular loop, which has many cysteine residues with conserved spacing. The member encoded by this gene may play a role in neurotransmission. In addition, a heteromeric association between this member and ACCN3 (variant 1) has been observed to co-assemble into proton-gated channels sensitive to gadolinium. Alternative splicing has been observed at this locus and two variants, encoding distinct isoforms, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204103	 The protein encoded by this gene is a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factor that plays an important role in the regulation of lineage-specific hematopoiesis. The encoded nuclear protein represses ETS1-mediated transcription of erythroid-specific genes in myeloid cells. This gene contains no introns. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000158055	 This gene encodes a member of the grainyhead family of transcription factors. The encoded protein may function as a transcription factor during development, and has been shown to stimulate migration of endothelial cells. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000140092	 The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted, extracellular matrix protein containing an Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) motif and calcium-binding EGF-like domains. It promotes adhesion of endothelial cells through interaction of integrins and the RGD motif. It is prominently expressed in developing arteries but less so in adult vessels. However, its expression is reinduced in balloon-injured vessels and atherosclerotic lesions, notably in intimal vascular smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells. Therefore, the protein encoded by this gene may play a role in vascular development and remodeling. Defects in this gene are a cause of autosomal dominant cutis laxa, autosomal recessive cutis laxa type I (CL type I), and age-related macular degeneration type 3 (ARMD3). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000117479	 This gene encodes the thiamin transporter protein. Mutations in this gene cause thiamin-responsive megaloblastic anemia syndrome (TRMA), which is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by diabetes mellitus, megaloblastic anemia and sensorineural deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198610	 This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. These enzymes catalyze the conversion of aldehydes and ketones to their corresponding alcohols by utilizing NADH and/or NADPH as cofactors. The enzymes display overlapping but distinct substrate specificity. This enzyme catalyzes the bioreduction of chlordecone, a toxic organochlorine pesticide, to chlordecone alcohol in liver. This gene shares high sequence identity with three other gene members and is clustered with those three genes at chromosome 10p15-p14. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135960	 This gene encodes a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family. The encoded transmembrane protein is a receptor for the soluble ligand ectodysplasin A, and can activate the nuclear factor-kappaB, JNK, and caspase-independent cell death pathways. It is required for the development of hair, teeth, and other ectodermal derivatives. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal dominant and recessive forms of hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000021488	 This gene encodes a protein that belongs to a family of light subunits of amino acid transporters. This protein plays a role in the high-affinity and sodium-independent transport of cystine and neutral and dibasic amino acids, and appears to function in the reabsorption of cystine in the kidney tubule. Mutations in this gene cause non-type I cystinuria, a disease that leads to cystine stones in the urinary system due to impaired transport of cystine and dibasic amino acids. Alternate transcript variants, which encode the same protein, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000126883	 The nuclear pore complex is a massive structure that extends across the nuclear envelope, forming a gateway that regulates the flow of macromolecules between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. Nucleoporins are the main components of the nuclear pore complex in eukaryotic cells. This gene is a member of the FG-repeat-containing nucleoporins. The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the cytoplasmic face of the nuclear pore complex where it is required for proper cell cycle progression and nucleocytoplasmic transport. The 3' portion of this gene forms a fusion gene with the DEK gene on chromosome 6 in a t(6,9) translocation associated with acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000099956	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of a complex that relieves repressive chromatin structures, allowing the transcriptional machinery to access its targets more effectively. The encoded nuclear protein may also bind to and enhance the DNA joining activity of HIV-1 integrase. This gene has been found to be a tumor suppressor, and mutations in it have been associated with malignant rhabdoid tumors. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115211	 Eukaryotic initiation factor 2B (EIF2B), which is necessary for protein synthesis, is a GTP exchange factor composed of five different subunits. The protein encoded by this gene is the fourth, or delta, subunit. Defects in this gene are a cause of leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter (VWM) and ovarioleukodystrophy. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140873	 This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. ADAMTS family members share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The protein encoded by this gene has a high sequence similarity to the protein encoded by gene ADAMTS16, another family member. It is thought to function as a tumor suppressor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000009950	 This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper transcription factor of the Myc/Max/Mad superfamily. This protein forms a heterodimeric complex and binds and activates, in a glucose-dependent manner, carbohydrate response element (ChoRE) motifs in the promoters of triglyceride synthesis genes. The gene is deleted in Williams-Beuren syndrome, a multisystem developmental disorder caused by the deletion of contiguous genes at chromosome 7q11.23. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163898	 This gene encodes a membrane-bound member of the mammalian triglyceride lipase family. It catalyzes the production of 2-acyl lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), which is a lipid mediator with diverse biological properties that include platelet aggregation, smooth muscle contraction, and stimulation of cell proliferation and motility. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128513	 This gene is a member of the telombin family and encodes a nuclear protein involved in telomere maintenance. Specifically, this protein functions as a member of a multi-protein complex that binds to the TTAGGG repeats of telomeres, regulating telomere length and protecting chromosome ends from illegitimate recombination, catastrophic chromosome instability, and abnormal chromosome segregation. Increased transcriptional expression of this gene is associated with stomach carcinogenesis and its progression. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000092445	 The gene is part of a 3-member transmembrane receptor kinase receptor family with a processed pseudogene distal on chromosome 15. The encoded protein is activated by the products of the growth arrest-specific gene 6 and protein S genes and is involved in controlling cell survival and proliferation, spermatogenesis, immunoregulation and phagocytosis. The encoded protein has also been identified as a cell entry factor for Ebola and Marburg viruses. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000198722	 This gene is expressed in the kidney cortical epithelial cells and is upregulated by hyperglycemia. The encoded protein shares a high level of similarity to the rat homolog, and contains 3 C2 domains and a diacylglycerol-binding C1 domain. Hyperglycemia increases the levels of diacylglycerol, which has been shown to induce apoptosis in cells transfected with this gene and thus contribute to the renal cell complications of hyperglycemia. Studies in other species also indicate a role for this protein in the priming step of synaptic vesicle exocytosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104312	 This gene encodes a member of the receptor-interacting protein (RIP) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. The encoded protein contains a C-terminal caspase activation and recruitment domain (CARD), and is a component of signaling complexes in both the innate and adaptive immune pathways. It is a potent activator of NF-kappaB and inducer of apoptosis in response to various stimuli. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140943	 The encoded protein has a central role in the regulation of lipid metabolism in cells. It is a sterol-regulated subtilisin-like serine protease that cleaves ER membrane-bound sterol regulatory element-binding proteins (SREBPs), a reaction that initiates the two-step proteolytic process by which transcriptionally active fragments of SREBPs are released from the membrane for translocation to the nucleus. The gene product is an integral membrane ER protein, with the bulk located in the ER lumen. It is synthesized as an inactive preproprotein that is self-activated by an intramolecular cleavage that generates the mature protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000117984	 This gene encodes a lysosomal aspartyl protease composed of a dimer of disulfide-linked heavy and light chains, both produced from a single protein precursor. This proteinase, which is a member of the peptidase C1 family, has a specificity similar to but narrower than that of pepsin A. Transcription of this gene is initiated from several sites, including one which is a start site for an estrogen-regulated transcript. Mutations in this gene are involved in the pathogenesis of several diseases, including breast cancer and possibly Alzheimer disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164073	 This gene encodes a ubiquitous integral membrane protein that contains a transporter domain and a major facilitator superfamily (MFS) domain. Other members of the major facilitator superfamily transport small solutes through chemiosmotic ion gradients. The substrate transported by this protein is unknown. The protein likely localizes to lysosomal membranes. Mutations in this gene are correlated with a variant form of late infantile-onset neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (vLINCL). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000181027	 This gene encodes a protein which is targeted to the medial Golgi apparatus and is necessary for posttranslational modification of dystroglycan. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital muscular dystrophy, mental retardation, and cerebellar cysts. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000185053	 The zeta-sarcoglycan gene measures over 465 kb and localizes to 8p22. This protein is part of the sarcoglycan complex, a group of 6 proteins. The sarcoglycans are all N-glycosylated transmembrane proteins with a short intra-cellular domain, a single transmembrane region and a large extra-cellular domain containing a carboxyl-terminal cluster with several conserved cysteine residues. The sarcoglycan complex is part of the dystrophin-associated glycoprotein complex (DGC), which bridges the inner cytoskeleton and the extra-cellular matrix. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173991	 Sarcomere assembly is regulated by the muscle protein titin. Titin is a giant elastic protein with kinase activity that extends half the length of a sarcomere. It serves as a scaffold to which myofibrils and other muscle related proteins are attached. This gene encodes a protein found in striated and cardiac muscle that binds to the titin Z1-Z2 domains and is a substrate of titin kinase, interactions thought to be critical to sarcomere assembly. Mutations in this gene are associated with limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2G. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000127990	 This gene encodes the epsilon member of the sarcoglycan family. Sarcoglycans are transmembrane proteins that are components of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex, which link the actin cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix. Unlike other family members which are predominantly expressed in striated muscle, the epsilon sarcoglycan is more broadly expressed. Mutations in this gene are associated with myoclonus-dystonia syndrome. This gene is imprinted, with preferential expression from the paternal allele. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000163069	 This gene encodes a member of the sarcoglycan family. Sarcoglycans are transmembrane components in the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex which help stabilize the muscle fiber membranes and link the muscle cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix. Mutations in this gene have been associated with limb-girdle muscular dystrophy.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000130714	 The protein encoded by this gene is an O-mannosyltransferase that requires interaction with the product of the POMT2 gene for enzymatic function. The encoded protein is found in the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum. Defects in this gene are a cause of Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS) and limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2K (LGMD2K). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000147223	 This gene encodes a protein similar to a zebrafish protein which acts as a transcriptional repressor in and is required for somite segmentation in zebrafish embryos (PMID: 16326386). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000101440	 In mice, the agouti gene encodes a paracrine signaling molecule that causes hair follicle melanocytes to synthesize pheomelanin, a yellow pigment, instead of the black or brown pigment, eumelanin. Pleiotropic effects of constitutive expression of the mouse gene include adult-onset obesity, increased tumor susceptibility, and premature infertility. This gene is highly similar to the mouse gene and encodes a secreted protein that may (1) affect the quality of hair pigmentation, (2) act as a pharmacological antagonist of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, (3) play a role in neuroendocrine aspects of melanocortin action, and (4) have a functional role in regulating lipid metabolism in adipocytes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145192	 Alpha2-HS glycoprotein (AHSG), a glycoprotein present in the serum, is synthesized by hepatocytes. The AHSG molecule consists of two polypeptide chains, which are both cleaved from a proprotein encoded from a single mRNA. It is involved in several functions, such as endocytosis, brain development and the formation of bone tissue. The protein is commonly present in the cortical plate of the immature cerebral cortex and bone marrow hemopoietic matrix, and it has therefore been postulated that it participates in the development of the tissues. However, its exact significance is still obscure. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000012779	 This gene encodes a member of the lipoxygenase gene family and plays a dual role in the synthesis of leukotrienes from arachidonic acid. The encoded protein, which is expressed specifically in bone marrow-derived cells, catalyzes the conversion of arachidonic acid to 5(S)-hydroperoxy-6-trans-8,11,14-cis-eicosatetraenoic acid, and further to the allylic epoxide 5(S)-trans-7,9-trans-11,14-cis-eicosatetrenoic acid (leukotriene A4). Leukotrienes are important mediators of a number of inflammatory and allergic conditions. Mutations in the promoter region of this gene lead to a diminished response to antileukotriene drugs used in the treatment of asthma and may also be associated with atherosclerosis and several cancers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000162104	 Adenylate cyclase is a membrane bound enzyme that catalyses the formation of cyclic AMP from ATP. It is regulated by a family of G protein-coupled receptors, protein kinases, and calcium. The type 9 adenylyl cyclase is a widely distributed adenylyl cyclase, and it is stimulated by beta-adrenergic receptor activation but is insensitive to forskolin, calcium, and somatostatin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196616	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this enzyme family metabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, other aliphatic alcohols, hydroxysteroids, and lipid peroxidation products. This encoded protein, consisting of several homo- and heterodimers of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits, exhibits high activity for ethanol oxidation and plays a major role in ethanol catabolism. Three genes encoding alpha, beta and gamma subunits are tandemly organized in a genomic segment as a gene cluster. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134242	 This gene encodes of member of the non-receptor class 4 subfamily of the protein-tyrosine phosphatase family. The encoded protein is a lymphoid-specific intracellular phosphatase that associates with the molecular adapter protein CBL and may be involved in regulating CBL function in the T-cell receptor signaling pathway. Mutations in this gene may be associated with a range of autoimmune disorders including Type 1 Diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and Graves' disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000087299	 This gene encodes L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, a FAD-dependent enzyme that oxidizes L-2-hydroxyglutarate to alpha-ketoglutarate in a variety of mammalian tissues. Mutations in this gene cause L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, a rare autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder resulting in moderate to severe mental retardation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119514	 This gene encodes a member of a family of UDP-GalNAc:polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferases, which catalyze the transfer of N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) from UDP-GalNAc to a serine or threonine residue on a polypeptide acceptor in the initial step of O-linked protein glycosylation. Mutations in this gene are associated with an increased susceptibility to colorectal cancer. 
ENSG00000107829	 This gene is a member of the F-box/WD-40 gene family, which recruit specific target proteins through their WD-40 protein-protein binding domains for ubiquitin mediated degradation. In mouse, a highly similar protein is thought to be responsible for maintaining the apical ectodermal ridge of developing limb buds; disruption of the mouse gene results in the absence of central digits, underdeveloped or absent metacarpal/metatarsal bones and syndactyly. This phenotype is remarkably similar to split hand-split foot malformation in humans, a clinically heterogeneous condition with a variety of modes of transmission. An autosomal recessive form has been mapped to the chromosomal region where this gene is located, and complex rearrangements involving duplications of this gene and others have been associated with the condition. A pseudogene of this locus has been mapped to one of the introns of the BCR gene on chromosome 22. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182180	 Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S16P family. The encoded protein is one of the most highly conserved ribosomal proteins between mammalian and yeast mitochondria. Three pseudogenes (located at 8q21.3, 20q13.32, 22q12-q13.1) for this gene have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000107187	 This gene encodes a member a large protein family which carry the LIM domain, a unique cysteine-rich zinc-binding domain. The encoded protein is a transcription factor that is required for pituitary development and motor neuron specification. Mutations in this gene cause combined pituitary hormone deficiency 3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000172037	 Laminins, a family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins, are the major noncollagenous constituent of basement membranes. They have been implicated in a wide variety of biological processes including cell adhesion, differentiation, migration, signaling, neurite outgrowth and metastasis. Laminins, composed of 3 non identical chains: laminin alpha, beta and gamma (formerly A, B1, and B2, respectively), form a cruciform structure consisting of 3 short arms, each formed by a different chain, and a long arm composed of all 3 chains. Each laminin chain is a multidomain protein encoded by a distinct gene. Several isoforms of each chain have been described. Different alpha, beta and gamma chain isomers combine to give rise to different heterotrimeric laminin isoforms which are designated by Arabic numerals in the order of their discovery, i.e. alpha1beta1gamma1 heterotrimer is laminin 1. The biological functions of the different chains and trimer molecules are largely unknown, but some of the chains have been shown to differ with respect to their tissue distribution, presumably reflecting diverse functions in vivo. This gene encodes the beta chain isoform laminin, beta 2. The beta 2 chain contains the 7 structural domains typical of beta chains of laminin, including the short alpha region. However, unlike beta 1 chain, beta 2 has a more restricted tissue distribution. It is enriched in the basement membrane of muscles at the neuromuscular junctions, kidney glomerulus and vascular smooth muscle. Transgenic mice in which the beta 2 chain gene was inactivated by homologous recombination, showed defects in the maturation of neuromuscular junctions and impairment of glomerular filtration. Alternative splicing involving a non consensus 5' splice site (gc) in the 5' UTR of this gene has been reported. It was suggested that inefficient splicing of this first intron, which does not change the protein sequence, results in a greater abundance of the unspliced form of the transcript than the spliced form. The full-length nature of the spliced transcript is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000203883	 This gene encodes a member of the SOX (SRY-related HMG-box) family of transcription factors involved in the regulation of embryonic development and in the determination of the cell fate. The encoded protein may act as a transcriptional regulator after forming a protein complex with other proteins. This protein plays a role in hair, blood vessel, and lymphatic vessel development. Mutations in this gene have been associated with recessive and dominant forms of hypotrichosis-lymphedema-telangiectasia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000141655	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptors can interact with various TRAF family proteins, through which this receptor induces the activation of NF-kappa B and MAPK8/JNK. This receptor and its ligand are important regulators of the interaction between T cells and dendritic cells. This receptor is also an essential mediator for osteoclast and lymph node development. Mutations at this locus have been associated with familial expansile osteolysis, autosomal recessive osteopetrosis, and Paget disease of bone. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this locus. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000143815	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ERG4/ERG24 family. It localized in the nuclear envelope inner membrane and anchors the lamina and the heterochromatin to the membrane. It may mediate interaction between chromatin and lamin B. Mutations of this gene has been associated with autosomal recessive HEM/Greenberg skeletal dysplasia. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160746	 The transmembrane protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of calcium-activated chloride channels. Defects in this gene may be a cause of autosomal recessive spinocerebellar ataxia-10. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000115306	 Spectrin is an actin crosslinking and molecular scaffold protein that links the plasma membrane to the actin cytoskeleton, and functions in the determination of cell shape, arrangement of transmembrane proteins, and organization of organelles. It is composed of two antiparallel dimers of alpha- and beta- subunits. This gene is one member of a family of beta-spectrin genes. The encoded protein contains an N-terminal actin-binding domain, and 17 spectrin repeats which are involved in dimer formation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000254440	 This intronless gene encodes a protein of unknown function. Its expression is up-regulated in some types of cancer, including prostate, breast, and bladder cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000169946	 The zinc finger protein encoded by this gene is a widely expressed member of the FOG family of transcription factors. The family members modulate the activity of GATA family proteins, which are important regulators of hematopoiesis and cardiogenesis in mammals. It has been demonstrated that the protein can both activate and down-regulate expression of GATA-target genes, suggesting different modulation in different promoter contexts. A related mRNA suggests an alternatively spliced product but this information is not yet fully supported by the sequence. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178084	 The product of this gene belongs to the ligand-gated ion channel receptor superfamily. This gene encodes subunit C of the type 3 receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin), a biogenic hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter, a hormone, and a mitogen. This receptor causes fast, depolarizing responses in neurons after activation. Genes encoding subunits C, D and E form a cluster on chromosome 3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000254636	 This gene encodes a protein that is thought to play a role in diseases in the elderly. Mutations in this gene have been associated with age-related macular degeneration. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000185313	 The protein encoded by this gene is a tetrodotoxin-resistant voltage-gated sodium channel alpha subunit. The properties of the channel formed by the encoded transmembrane protein can be altered by interaction with different beta subunits. This protein may be involved in the onset of pain associated with peripheral neuropathy. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000186111	 This locus encodes a type I phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase. The encoded protein catalyzes phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate, producing phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. This enzyme is found at synapses and has been found to play roles in endocytosis and cell migration. Mutations at this locus have been associated with lethal congenital contractural syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000150753	 The protein encoded by this gene is a molecular chaperone that is a member of the chaperonin containing TCP1 complex (CCT), also known as the TCP1 ring complex (TRiC). This complex consists of two identical stacked rings, each containing eight different proteins. Unfolded polypeptides enter the central cavity of the complex and are folded in an ATP-dependent manner. The complex folds various proteins, including actin and tubulin. Alternate transcriptional splice variants of this gene have been observed but have not been thoroughly characterized. In addition, three pseudogenes of this gene have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000184056	 Vesicle mediated protein sorting plays an important role in segregation of intracellular molecules into distinct organelles. Genetic studies in yeast have identified more than 40 vacuolar protein sorting (VPS) genes involved in vesicle transport to vacuoles. This gene is a member of the Sec-1 domain family, and encodes the human ortholog of rat Vps33b which is homologous to the yeast class C Vps33 protein. The mammalian class C Vps proteins are predominantly associated with late endosomes/lysosomes, and like their yeast counterparts, may mediate vesicle trafficking steps in the endosome/lysosome pathway. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135069	 The protein encoded by this gene is likely a phosphoserine aminotransferase, based on similarity to proteins in mouse, rabbit, and Drosophila. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132837	 This gene encodes an enzyme involved in the catabolism of choline, catalyzing the oxidative demethylation of dimethylglycine to form sarcosine. The enzyme is found as a monomer in the mitochondrial matrix, and uses flavin adenine dinucleotide and folate as cofactors. Mutation in this gene causes dimethylglycine dehydrogenase deficiency, characterized by a fishlike body odor, chronic muscle fatigue, and elevated levels of the muscle form of creatine kinase in serum. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000090659	 This gene encodes a transmembrane receptor and is often referred to as DC-SIGN because of its expression on the surface of dendritic cells and macrophages. The encoded protein is involved in the innate immune system and recognizes numerous evolutionarily divergent pathogens ranging from parasites to viruses with a large impact on public health. The protein is organized into three distinct domains: an N-terminal transmembrane domain, a tandem-repeat neck domain and C-type lectin carbohydrate recognition domain. The extracellular region consisting of the C-type lectin and neck domains has a dual function as a pathogen recognition receptor and a cell adhesion receptor by binding carbohydrate ligands on the surface of microbes and endogenous cells. The neck region is important for homo-oligomerization which allows the receptor to bind multivalent ligands with high avidity. Variations in the number of 23 amino acid repeats in the neck domain of this protein are rare but have a significant impact on ligand binding ability. This gene is closely related in terms of both sequence and function to a neighboring gene (GeneID 10332; often referred to as L-SIGN). DC-SIGN and L-SIGN differ in their ligand-binding properties and distribution. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000149554	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. It is required for checkpoint mediated cell cycle arrest in response to DNA damage or the presence of unreplicated DNA. This protein acts to integrate signals from ATM and ATR, two cell cycle proteins involved in DNA damage responses, that also associate with chromatin in meiotic prophase I. Phosphorylation of CDC25A protein phosphatase by this protein is required for cells to delay cell cycle progression in response to double-strand DNA breaks. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000167772	 This gene is a member of the angiopoietin/angiopoietin-like gene family and encodes a glycosylated, secreted protein with a fibrinogen C-terminal domain. This gene is induced under hypoxic conditions in endothelial cells and is the target of peroxisome proliferation activators. The encoded protein is a serum hormone directly involved in regulating glucose homeostasis, lipid metabolism, and insulin sensitivity and also acts as an apoptosis survival factor for vascular endothelial cells. The encoded protein may play a role in several cancers and it also has been shown to prevent the metastatic process by inhibiting vascular activity as well as tumor cell motility and invasiveness. Decreased expression of this protein has been associated with type 2 diabetes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. This gene was previously referred to as ANGPTL2 but has been renamed ANGPTL4. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128655	 The 3',5'-cyclic nucleotides cAMP and cGMP function as second messengers in a wide variety of signal transduction pathways. 3',5'-cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases (PDEs) catalyze the hydrolysis of cAMP and cGMP to the corresponding 5'-monophosphates and provide a mechanism to downregulate cAMP and cGMP signaling. This gene encodes a member of the PDE protein superfamily. Mutations in this gene are a cause of Cushing disease and adrenocortical hyperplasia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000117713	 This gene encodes a member of the SWI/SNF family, whose members have helicase and ATPase activities and are thought to regulate transcription of certain genes by altering the chromatin structure around those genes. The encoded protein is part of the large ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complex SNF/SWI, which is required for transcriptional activation of genes normally repressed by chromatin. It possesses at least two conserved domains that could be important for its function. First, it has a DNA-binding domain that can specifically bind an AT-rich DNA sequence known to be recognized by a SNF/SWI complex at the beta-globin locus. Second, the C-terminus of the protein can stimulate glucocorticoid receptor-dependent transcriptional activation. It is thought that the protein encoded by this gene confers specificity to the SNF/SWI complex and may recruit the complex to its targets through either protein-DNA or protein-protein interactions. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197343	 This gene encodes a zinc finger protein. The zinc finger proteins are involved in DNA binding and protein-protein interactions. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000007952	 Voltage-gated proton (hydrogen) channels play an important role in cellular defense against acidic stress. They are unique among ion channels with respect to their extremely high selectivity, marked temperature dependence, and unitary conductance, which is 3 orders of magnitude lower than that of most other ion channels. NOX1 is a homolog of the catalytic subunit of the superoxide-generating NADPH oxidase of phagocytes, gp91phox. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000165584	 The product of this gene belongs to the family of highly homologous synovial sarcoma X (SSX) breakpoint proteins. These proteins may function as transcriptional repressors. They are also capable of eliciting spontaneously humoral and cellular immune responses in cancer patients, and are potentially useful targets in cancer vaccine-based immunotherapy. SSX1, SSX2 and SSX4 genes have been involved in the t(X;18) translocation characteristically found in all synovial sarcomas. This gene appears not to be involved in this type of chromosome translocation. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000094631	 Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alters chromosome structure and affects transcription factor access to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to class II of the histone deacetylase/acuc/apha family. It contains an internal duplication of two catalytic domains which appear to function independently of each other. This protein possesses histone deacetylase activity and represses transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123384	 The protein encoded by this gene is an endocytic receptor involved in several cellular processes, including intracellular signaling, lipid homeostasis, and clearance of apoptotic cells. In addition, the encoded protein is necessary for the A2M-mediated clearance of secreted amyloid precursor protein and beta-amyloid, the main component of amyloid plaques found in Alzheimer patients. Expression of this gene decreases with age and has been found to be lower than controls in brain tissue from Alzheimer patients. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000183196	 The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a sulfate group to the GlcNAc residues of keratan. Keratan sulfate helps maintain corneal transparency. Defects in this gene are a cause of macular corneal dystrophy (MCD). [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000166603	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound receptor and member of the melanocortin receptor family. The encoded protein interacts with adrenocorticotropic and MSH hormones and is mediated by G proteins. This is an intronless gene. Defects in this gene are a cause of autosomal dominant obesity. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000005339	 This gene is ubiquitously expressed and is involved in the transcriptional coactivation of many different transcription factors. First isolated as a nuclear protein that binds to cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB), this gene is now known to play critical roles in embryonic development, growth control, and homeostasis by coupling chromatin remodeling to transcription factor recognition. The protein encoded by this gene has intrinsic histone acetyltransferase activity and also acts as a scaffold to stabilize additional protein interactions with the transcription complex. This protein acetylates both histone and non-histone proteins. This protein shares regions of very high sequence similarity with protein p300 in its bromodomain, cysteine-histidine-rich regions, and histone acetyltransferase domain. Mutations in this gene cause Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS). Chromosomal translocations involving this gene have been associated with acute myeloid leukemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000140470	 This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. ADAMTS family members share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The protein encoded by this gene has a high sequence similarity to the protein encoded by ADAMTS19, another family member. The function of this protein has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101310	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SEC23 subfamily of the SEC23/SEC24 family, which is involved in vesicle trafficking. The encoded protein has similarity to yeast Sec23p component of COPII. COPII is the coat protein complex responsible for vesicle budding from the ER. The function of this gene product has been implicated in cargo selection and concentration. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000188419	 This gene encodes component A of the RAB geranylgeranyl transferase holoenzyme. In the dimeric holoenzyme, this subunit binds unprenylated Rab GTPases and then presents them to the catalytic Rab GGTase subunit for the geranylgeranyl transfer reaction. Rab GTPases need to be geranylgeranyled on either one or two cysteine residues in their C-terminus to localize to the correct intracellular membrane. Mutations in this gene are a cause of choroideremia; also known as tapetochoroidal dystrophy (TCD). This X-linked disease is characterized by progressive dystrophy of the choroid, retinal pigment epithelium and retina. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000132842	 This gene encodes a protein that may play a role in organelle biogenesis associated with melanosomes, platelet dense granules, and lysosomes. The encoded protein is part of the heterotetrameric AP-3 protein complex which interacts with the scaffolding protein clathrin. Mutations in this gene are associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 2. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]. 
ENSG00000117560	 The protein encoded by this gene is the ligand for FAS. Both are transmembrane proteins. Interaction of FAS with this ligand is critical in triggering apoptosis of some types of cells such as lymphocytes. Defects in this gene may be related to some cases of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109101	 Mutations in the winged-helix transcription factor gene at the nude locus in mice and rats produce the pleiotropic phenotype of hairlessness and athymia, resulting in a severely compromised immune system. This gene is orthologous to the mouse and rat genes and encodes a similar DNA-binding transcription factor that is thought to regulate keratin gene expression. A mutation in this gene has been correlated with T-cell immunodeficiency, the skin disorder congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy. Alternative splicing in the 5' UTR of this gene has been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000020922	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein involved in homologous recombination, telomere length maintenance, and DNA double-strand break repair. By itself, the protein has 3' to 5' exonuclease activity and endonuclease activity. The protein forms a complex with the RAD50 homolog; this complex is required for nonhomologous joining of DNA ends and possesses increased single-stranded DNA endonuclease and 3' to 5' exonuclease activities. In conjunction with a DNA ligase, this protein promotes the joining of noncomplementary ends in vitro using short homologies near the ends of the DNA fragments. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome 3. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000081087	 This gene encodes a protein that may be involved in the degradation of G proteins via the ubiquitin-dependent proteasome pathway. The encoded protein binds to members of subfamily A of the regulator of the G-protein signaling (RGS) family through an N-terminal leucine-rich region. This protein also has a central RING finger-like domain and E3 ubiquitin ligase activity. This protein is highly conserved from flies to humans. Defects in this gene may cause the autosomal recessive, infantile malignant form of osteopetrosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000185339	 This gene encodes a member of the vitamin B12-binding protein family. This family of proteins, alternatively referred to as R binders, is expressed in various tissues and secretions. This plasma protein binds cobalamin and mediates the transport of cobalamin into cells. This protein and other mammalian cobalamin-binding proteins, such as transcobalamin I and gastric intrisic factor, may have evolved by duplication of a common ancestral gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000101966	 This gene encodes a protein that belongs to a family of apoptotic suppressor proteins. Members of this family share a conserved motif termed, baculovirus IAP repeat, which is necessary for their anti-apoptotic function. This protein functions through binding to tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors TRAF1 and TRAF2 and inhibits apoptosis induced by menadione, a potent inducer of free radicals, and interleukin 1-beta converting enzyme. This protein also inhibits at least two members of the caspase family of cell-death proteases, caspase-3 and caspase-7. Mutations in this gene are the cause of X-linked lymphoproliferative syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 2 and 11.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000003400	 This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This protein cleaves and activates caspases 3 and 7, and the protein itself is processed by caspase 8. Mutations in this gene are associated with type IIA autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome, non-Hodgkin lymphoma and gastric cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000092929	 This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the UNC13 family, containing similar domain structure as other family members but lacking an N-terminal phorbol ester-binding C1 domain present in other Munc13 proteins. The protein appears to play a role in vesicle maturation during exocytosis and is involved in regulation of cytolytic granules secretion. Mutations in this gene are associated with familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis type 3, a genetically heterogeneous, rare autosomal recessive disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116701	 This gene encodes neutrophil cytosolic factor 2, the 67-kilodalton cytosolic subunit of the multi-protein NADPH oxidase complex found in neutrophils. This oxidase produces a burst of superoxide which is delivered to the lumen of the neutrophil phagosome. Mutations in this gene, as well as in other NADPH oxidase subunits, can result in chronic granulomatous disease, a disease that causes recurrent infections by catalase-positive organisms. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000117054	 This gene encodes the medium-chain specific (C4 to C12 straight chain) acyl-Coenzyme A dehydrogenase. The homotetramer enzyme catalyzes the initial step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway. Defects in this gene cause medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, a disease characterized by hepatic dysfunction, fasting hypoglycemia, and encephalopathy, which can result in infantile death. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000161981	 Two types of spliceosomes catalyze splicing of pre-mRNAs. The major U2-type spliceosome is found in all eukaryotes and removes U2-type introns, which represent more than 99% of pre-mRNA introns. The minor U12-type spliceosome is found in some eukaryotes and removes U12-type introns, which are rare and have distinct splice consensus signals. The U12-type spliceosome consists of several small nuclear RNAs and associated proteins. This gene encodes a 25K protein that is a component of the U12-type spliceosome. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000189167	 This gene encodes a member of the ZAR1 family that is predominantly expressed in oocytes and early embryos. The protein may function as an RNA regulator in early embryos. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000141646	 This gene encodes a member of the Smad family of signal transduction proteins. Smad proteins are phosphorylated and activated by transmembrane serine-threonine receptor kinases in response to TGF-beta signaling. The product of this gene forms homomeric complexes and heteromeric complexes with other activated Smad proteins, which then accumulate in the nucleus and regulate the transcription of target genes. This protein binds to DNA and recognizes an 8-bp palindromic sequence (GTCTAGAC) called the Smad-binding element (SBE). The Smad proteins are subject to complex regulation by post-translational modifications. Mutations or deletions in this gene have been shown to result in pancreatic cancer, juvenile polyposis syndrome, and hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000148672	 This gene encodes glutamate dehydrogenase protein; a mitochondrial matrix enzyme that catalyzes the oxidative deamination of glutamate to alpha-ketoglutarate and ammonia. This enzyme has an important role in regulating amino acid induced insulin secretion and activating mutations in this gene are a common cause of congenital hyperinsulinism. This enzyme is allosterically activated by ADP and inhibited by GTP and ATP. The related glutamate dehydrogenase 2 gene on the human X-chromosome originated from this gene via retrotransposition and encodes a soluble form of glutamate dehydrogenase. Multiple pseudogenes of this gene are present in humans.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000129991	 Troponin I (TnI), along with troponin T (TnT) and troponin C (TnC), is one of 3 subunits that form the troponin complex of the thin filaments of striated muscle. TnI is the inhibitory subunit; blocking actin-myosin interactions and thereby mediating striated muscle relaxation. The TnI subfamily contains three genes: TnI-skeletal-fast-twitch, TnI-skeletal-slow-twitch, and TnI-cardiac. This gene encodes the TnI-cardiac protein and is exclusively expressed in cardiac muscle tissues. Mutations in this gene cause familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy type 7 (CMH7) and familial restrictive cardiomyopathy (RCM). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000174238	 This gene encodes a member of a family of lipid-binding proteins that transfer molecules of phosphatidylinositol or phosphatidylcholine between membrane surfaces. The protein is implicated in phospholipase C signaling and in the production of phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP3) by phosphoinositide-3-kinase.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000125414	 Myosins are actin-based motor proteins that function in the generation of mechanical force in eukaryotic cells. Muscle myosins are heterohexamers composed of 2 myosin heavy chains and 2 pairs of nonidentical myosin light chains. This gene encodes a member of the class II or conventional myosin heavy chains, and functions in skeletal muscle contraction. This gene is found in a cluster of myosin heavy chain genes on chromosome 17. A mutation in this gene results in inclusion body myopathy-3. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000138829	 The protein encoded by this gene is a component of connective tissue microfibrils and may be involved in elastic fiber assembly. Mutations in this gene cause congenital contractural arachnodactyly. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000068976	 This gene encodes a muscle enzyme involved in glycogenolysis. Highly similar enzymes encoded by different genes are found in liver and brain. Mutations in this gene are associated with McArdle disease (myophosphorylase deficiency), a glycogen storage disease of muscle. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000108753	 This gene encodes a member of the homeodomain-containing superfamily of transcription factors. The protein binds to DNA as either a homodimer, or a heterodimer with the related protein hepatocyte nuclear factor 1-alpha. The gene has been shown to function in nephron development, and regulates development of the embryonic pancreas. Mutations in this gene result in renal cysts and diabetes syndrome and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, and expression of this gene is altered in some types of cancer. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000204386	 The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal enzyme that cleaves terminal sialic acid residues from substrates such as glycoproteins and glycolipids. In the lysosome, this enzyme is part of a heterotrimeric complex together with beta-galactosidase and cathepsin A (the latter is also referred to as 'protective protein'). Mutations in this gene can lead to sialidosis, a lysosomal storage disease that can be type 1 (cherry red spot-myoclonus syndrome or normosomatic type), which is late-onset, or type 2 (the dysmorphic type), which occurs at an earlier age with increased severity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198798	 This gene is a MAGE-B subfamily member of the MAGE gene family. MAGE family member proteins direct the expression of tumor antigens recognized on a human melanoma by autologous cytolytic T lymphocytes. There are two known clusters of MAGE genes on chromosome X. The members of the MAGE-A subfamily are located in the Xq28 region, while the members of the MAGE-B subfamily are clustered in the Xp21 region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000156009	 This gene is a member of the MAGEA gene family. The members of this family encode proteins with 50 to 80% sequence identity to each other. The promoters and first exons of the MAGEA genes show considerable variability, suggesting that the existence of this gene family enables the same function to be expressed under different transcriptional controls. The MAGEA genes are clustered at chromosomal location Xq28. They have been implicated in some hereditary disorders, such as dyskeratosis congenita. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000104447	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that represses GATA-regulated genes and binds to a dynein light chain protein. Binding of the encoded protein to the dynein light chain protein affects binding to GATA consensus sequences and suppresses its transcriptional activity. Defects in this gene are a cause of tricho-rhino-phalangeal syndrome (TRPS) types I-III. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125618	 This gene encodes a member of the paired box (PAX) family of transcription factors. Members of this gene family typically encode proteins that contain a paired box domain, an octapeptide, and a paired-type homeodomain. This nuclear protein is involved in thyroid follicular cell development and expression of thyroid-specific genes. Mutations in this gene have been associated with thyroid dysgenesis, thyroid follicular carcinomas and atypical follicular thyroid adenomas. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000091583	 Apolipoprotein H has been implicated in a variety of physiologic pathways including lipoprotein metabolism, coagulation, and the production of antiphospholipid autoantibodies.  APOH may be a required cofactor for anionic phospholipid binding by the antiphospholipid autoantibodies found in sera of many patients with lupus and primary antiphospholipid syndrome, but it does not seem to be required for the reactivity of antiphospholipid autoantibodies associated with infections. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000172270	 The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane protein that is important in spermatogenesis, embryo implantation, neural network formation, and tumor progression. The encoded protein is also a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the BSG*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000111846	 This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for formation of the blood group I antigen. The i and I antigens are distinguished by linear and branched poly-N-acetyllactosaminoglycans, respectively. The encoded protein is the I-branching enzyme, a beta-1,6-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase responsible for the conversion of fetal i antigen to adult I antigen in erythrocytes during embryonic development. Mutations in this gene have been associated with adult i blood group phenotype. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the GCNT2*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000171862	 This gene was identified as a tumor suppressor that is mutated in a large number of cancers at high frequency. The protein encoded this gene is a phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate 3-phosphatase. It contains a tensin like domain as well as a catalytic domain similar to that of the dual specificity protein tyrosine phosphatases. Unlike most of the protein tyrosine phosphatases, this protein preferentially dephosphorylates phosphoinositide substrates. It negatively regulates intracellular levels of phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate in cells and functions as a tumor suppressor by negatively regulating AKT/PKB signaling pathway. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132155	 This gene is the cellular homolog of viral raf gene (v-raf). The encoded protein is a MAP kinase kinase kinase (MAP3K), which functions downstream of the Ras family of membrane associated GTPases to which it binds directly. Once activated, the cellular RAF1 protein can phosphorylate to activate the dual specificity protein kinases MEK1 and MEK2, which in turn phosphorylate to activate the serine/threonine specific protein kinases, ERK1 and ERK2. Activated ERKs are pleiotropic effectors of cell physiology and play an important role in the control of gene expression involved in the cell division cycle, apoptosis, cell differentiation and cell migration. Mutations in this gene are associated with Noonan syndrome 5 and LEOPARD syndrome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183918	 This gene encodes a protein that plays a major role in the bidirectional stimulation of T and B cells. This protein contains an SH2 domain and a short tail. It associates with the signaling lymphocyte-activation molecule, thereby acting as an inhibitor of this transmembrane protein by blocking the recruitment of the SH2-domain-containing signal-transduction molecule SHP-2 to its docking site. This protein can also bind to other related surface molecules that are expressed on activated T, B and NK cells, thereby modifying signal transduction pathways in these cells. Mutations in this gene cause lymphoproliferative syndrome X-linked type 1 or Duncan disease, a rare immunodeficiency characterized by extreme susceptibility to infection with Epstein-Barr virus, with symptoms including severe mononucleosis and malignant lymphoma. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196352	 This gene encodes a protein involved in the regulation of the complement cascade. The encoded glycoprotein is also known as the decay-accelerating factor (DAF); binding of DAF to complement proteins accelerates their decay, disrupting the cascade and preventing damage to host cells. Antigens present on the DAF glycoprotein constitute the Cromer blood group system (CROM). Two alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different proteins have been identified. The predominant transcript encodes a membrane-bound protein expressed on cells exposed to plasma component proteins but an alternatively spliced transcript produces a soluble protein present at much lower levels. Additional, alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the CD55*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000118046	 This gene, which encodes a member of the serine/threonine kinase family, regulates cell polarity and functions as a tumor suppressor. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by the growth of polyps in the gastrointestinal tract, pigmented macules on the skin and mouth, and other neoplasms. Alternate transcriptional splice variants of this gene have been observed but have not been thoroughly characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106799	 The protein encoded by this gene forms a heteromeric complex with type II TGF-beta receptors when bound to TGF-beta, transducing the TGF-beta signal from the cell surface to the cytoplasm. The encoded protein is a serine/threonine protein kinase. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Loeys-Dietz aortic aneurysm syndrome (LDAS). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000109099	 This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that is a major component of myelin in the peripheral nervous system. Various mutations of this gene are causes of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease Type IA, Dejerine-Sottas syndrome, and hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies. Alternative splicing of this gene results in three transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000000005	 This gene encodes a protein that is related to chondromodulin-I, which is a cartilage-specific glycoprotein that functions to stimulate chondrocyte growth and to inhibit tube formation of endothelial cells. This protein is also an angiogenesis inhibitor. Genetic variation in this gene is associated with a risk for type 2 diabetes, central obesity and serum levels of systemic immune mediators in a body size-dependent manner. This gene is also a candidate gene for age-related macular degeneration, though a direct link has yet to be demonstrated. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000164674	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of synaptotagmin-like proteins (SLPs). SLPs are peripheral membrane proteins that interact with RAB27A protein, and play a role in vesicular trafficking. Unlike, SLPs 1 and 2, this protein binds phospholipids in the presence of calcium ions. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000028137	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This protein and TNF-receptor 1 form a heterocomplex that mediates the recruitment of two anti-apoptotic proteins, c-IAP1 and c-IAP2, which possess E3 ubiquitin ligase activity. The function of IAPs in TNF-receptor signalling is unknown, however, c-IAP1 is thought to potentiate TNF-induced apoptosis by the ubiquitination and degradation of TNF-receptor-associated factor 2, which mediates anti-apoptotic signals. Knockout studies in mice also suggest a role of this protein in protecting neurons from apoptosis by stimulating antioxidative pathways. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000099875	 This gene encodes a member of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases (CAMK) Ser/Thr protein kinase family, which belongs to the protein kinase superfamily. This protein contains conserved DLG (asp-leu-gly) and ENIL (glu-asn-ile-leu) motifs, and an N-terminal polybasic region which binds importin A and the translation factor scaffold protein eukaryotic initiation factor 4G (eIF4G). This protein is one of the downstream kinases activated by mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases. It phosphorylates the eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E), thus playing important roles in the initiation of mRNA translation, oncogenic transformation and malignant cell proliferation. In addition to eIF4E, this protein also interacts with von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor (VHL), ring-box 1 (Rbx1) and Cullin2 (Cul2), which are all components of the CBC(VHL) ubiquitin ligase E3 complex. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but the full-length nature and biological activity of only two variants are determined. These two variants encode distinct isoforms which differ in activity and regulation, and in subcellular localization. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000101981	 This gene encodes vitamin K-dependent coagulation factor IX that circulates in the blood as an inactive zymogen. This factor is converted to an active form by factor XIa, which excises the activation peptide and thus generates a heavy chain and a light chain held together by one or more disulfide bonds. The role of this activated factor IX in the blood coagulation cascade is to activate factor X to its active form through interactions with Ca+2 ions, membrane phospholipids, and factor VIII. Alterations of this gene, including point mutations, insertions and deletions, cause factor IX deficiency, which is a recessive X-linked disorder, also called hemophilia B or Christmas disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000005893	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of membrane glycoproteins. This glycoprotein provides selectins with carbohydrate ligands. It may play a role in tumor cell metastasis. It may also function in the protection, maintenance, and adhesion of the lysosome. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145692	 This gene encodes a cytosolic enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of betaine and homocysteine to dimethylglycine and methionine, respectively. Defects in this gene could lead to hyperhomocyst(e)inemia, but such a defect has not yet been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000103449	 The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcriptional repressor and may be part of the NuRD histone deacetylase complex (HDAC). Defects in this gene are a cause of Townes-Brocks syndrome (TBS) as well as bronchio-oto-renal syndrome (BOR). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140285	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities, and are involved in a variety of biological processes, including embryonic development, cell growth, morphogenesis, tissue repair, tumor growth and invasion. This protein is a potent epithelial cell-specific growth factor, whose mitogenic activity is predominantly exhibited in keratinocytes but not in fibroblasts and endothelial cells. Studies of mouse and rat homologs of this gene implicated roles in morphogenesis of epithelium, reepithelialization of wounds, hair development and early lung organogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165186	 This gene encodes a membrane protein with a patched domain. The encoded protein is similar to Drosophila proteins which act as receptors for the morphogen sonic hedgehog. Deletions in this gene, which is located on the X chromosome, are associated with intellectual disability and autism (PMID: 21091464, PMID: 20844286). [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000261701	 This gene encodes a haptoglobin-related protein that binds hemoglobin as efficiently as haptoglobin. Unlike haptoglobin, plasma concentration of this protein is unaffected in patients with sickle cell anemia and extensive intravascular hemolysis, suggesting a difference in binding between haptoglobin-hemoglobin and haptoglobin-related protein-hemoglobin complexes to CD163, the hemoglobin scavenger receptor. This protein may also be a clinically important predictor of recurrence of breast cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000181652	 This gene functions in the regulation of autophagy, a lysosomal degradation pathway. This gene also functions as an antisense transcript in the posttranscriptional regulation of the endothelial nitric oxide synthase 3 gene, which has 3' overlap with this gene on the opposite strand. Mutations in this gene and disruption of the autophagy process have been associated with multiple cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000164736	 This gene encodes a member of the SOX (SRY-related HMG-box) family of transcription factors involved in the regulation of embryonic development and in the determination of the cell fate. The encoded protein may act as a transcriptional regulator after forming a protein complex with other proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162065	 This gene encodes a protein with a conserved domain, referred to as the TBC domain, characteristic of proteins which interact with GTPases. TBC domain proteins may serve as GTPase-activating proteins for a particular group of GTPases, the Rab (Ras-related proteins in brain) small GTPases which are involved in the regulation of membrane trafficking. Mutations in this gene are associated with familial infantile myoclonic epilepsy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000075340	 Adducins are heteromeric proteins composed of different subunits referred to as adducin alpha, beta and gamma. The three subunits are encoded by distinct genes and belong to a family of membrane skeletal proteins involved in the assembly of spectrin-actin network in erythrocytes and at sites of cell-cell contact in epithelial tissues. While adducins alpha and gamma are ubiquitously expressed, the expression of adducin beta is restricted to brain and hematopoietic tissues. Adducin, originally purified from human erythrocytes, was found to be a heterodimer of adducins alpha and beta. Polymorphisms resulting in amino acid substitutions in these two subunits have been associated with the regulation of blood pressure in an animal model of hypertension. Heterodimers consisting of alpha and gamma subunits have also been described. Structurally, each subunit is comprised of two distinct domains. The amino-terminal region is protease resistant and globular in shape, while the carboxy-terminal region is protease sensitive. The latter contains multiple phosphorylation sites for protein kinase C, the binding site for calmodulin, and is required for association with spectrin and actin. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000179593	 This gene encodes a member of the lipoxygenase family of structurally related nonheme iron dioxygenases involved in the production of fatty acid hydroperoxides. The encoded protein converts arachidonic acid exclusively to 15S-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid, while metabolizing linoleic acid less effectively. This gene is located in a cluster of related genes and a pseudogene that spans approximately 100 kilobases on the short arm of chromosome 17. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000070961	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type primary ion transport ATPases characterized by the formation of an aspartyl phosphate intermediate during the reaction cycle. These enzymes remove bivalent calcium ions from eukaryotic cells against very large concentration gradients and play a critical role in intracellular calcium homeostasis. The mammalian plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoforms are encoded by at least four separate genes and the diversity of these enzymes is further increased by alternative splicing of transcripts. The expression of different isoforms and splice variants is regulated in a developmental, tissue- and cell type-specific manner, suggesting that these pumps are functionally adapted to the physiological needs of particular cells and tissues. This gene encodes the plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 1. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000023287	 The protein encoded by this gene interacts with signaling pathways to coordinately regulate cell growth, cell proliferation, apoptosis, autophagy, and cell migration. This tumor suppressor also enhances retinoblastoma 1 gene expression in cancer cells. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000161849	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. As a type II hair keratin, it is a basic protein which heterodimerizes with type I keratins to form hair and nails. The type II hair keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q13 and are grouped into two distinct subfamilies based on structure similarity. One subfamily, consisting of KRTHB1, KRTHB3, and KRTHB6, is highly related. The other less-related subfamily includes KRTHB2, KRTHB4, and KRTHB5. All hair keratins are expressed in the hair follicle; this hair keratin is contained primarily in the filiform tongue papilla, among other hair keratins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164199	 This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor superfamily. The encoded protein contains a 7-transmembrane receptor domain, binds calcium and is expressed in the central nervous system. Mutations in this gene are associated with Usher syndrome 2 and familial febrile seizures. Several alternatively spliced transcripts have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000078898	 This gene encodes a member of the lipid transfer/lipopolysaccharide binding protein (LT/LBP) gene family. It is highly expressed in hypertrophic tonsils. This gene and three other members of the LT/LBP gene family form a cluster on the long arm of chromosome 20. [provided by RefSeq]. 
ENSG00000137285	 The protein encoded by this gene is a beta isoform of tubulin, which binds GTP and is a major component of microtubules. This gene is highly similar to TUBB2A and TUBB2C. Defects in this gene are a cause of asymmetric polymicrogyria. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000176774	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AC129850.7. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000053438	 The protein encoded by this gene is a proteolipid that may be involved in the regulation of ion channels during brain development. The encoded protein may also play a role in forming and maintaining the structure of the nervous system. This gene is found within an intron of the BLCAP gene, but on the opposite strand. This gene is imprinted and is expressed only from the paternal allele. Two transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000109685	 This gene encodes a protein that contains four domains present in other developmental proteins: a PWWP domain, an HMG box, a SET domain, and a PHD-type zinc finger. It is expressed ubiquitously in early development. Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome (WHS) is a malformation syndrome associated with a hemizygous deletion of the distal short arm of chromosome 4. This gene maps to the 165 kb WHS critical region and has also been involved in the chromosomal translocation t(4;14)(p16.3;q32.3) in multiple myelomas. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Some transcript variants are nonsense-mediated mRNA (NMD) decay candidates, hence not represented as reference sequences. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000079805	 Dynamins represent one of the subfamilies of GTP-binding proteins. These proteins share considerable sequence similarity over the N-terminal portion of the molecule, which contains the GTPase domain. Dynamins are associated with microtubules. They have been implicated in cell processes such as endocytosis and cell motility, and in alterations of the membrane that accompany certain activities such as bone resorption by osteoclasts. Dynamins bind many proteins that bind actin and other cytoskeletal proteins. Dynamins can also self-assemble, a process that stimulates GTPase activity. Five alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different proteins have been described. Additional alternatively spliced transcripts may exist, but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000100285	 Neurofilaments are type IV intermediate filament heteropolymers composed of light, medium, and heavy chains. Neurofilaments comprise the axoskeleton and functionally maintain neuronal caliber. They may also play a role in intracellular transport to axons and dendrites. This gene encodes the heavy neurofilament protein. This protein is commonly used as a biomarker of neuronal damage and susceptibility to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has been associated with mutations in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000170421	 This gene is a member of the type II keratin family clustered on the long arm of chromosome 12. Type I and type II keratins heteropolymerize to form intermediate-sized filaments in the cytoplasm of epithelial cells. The product of this gene typically dimerizes with keratin 18 to form an intermediate filament in simple single-layered epithelial cells. This protein plays a role in maintaining cellular structural integrity and also functions in signal transduction and cellular differentiation. Mutations in this gene cause cryptogenic cirrhosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000084234	 This gene encodes amyloid precursor- like protein 2 (APLP2), which is a member of the APP (amyloid precursor protein) family including APP, APLP1 and APLP2. This protein is ubiquitously expressed. It contains heparin-, copper- and zinc- binding domains at the N-terminus, BPTI/Kunitz inhibitor and E2 domains in the middle region, and transmembrane and intracellular domains at the C-terminus. This protein interacts with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules. The synergy of this protein and the APP is required to mediate neuromuscular transmission, spatial learning and synaptic plasticity. This protein has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000072518	 This gene encodes a member of the Par-1 family of serine/threonine protein kinases. The protein is an important regulator of cell polarity in epithelial and neuronal cells, and also controls the stability of microtubules through phosphorylation and inactivation of several microtubule-associating proteins. The protein localizes to cell membranes. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000143473	 Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. This gene encodes a member of the potassium channel, voltage-gated, subfamily H. This member is a pore-forming (alpha) subunit of a voltage-gated non-inactivating delayed rectifier potassium channel. It is activated at the onset of myoblast differentiation. The gene is highly expressed in brain and in myoblasts. Overexpression of the gene may confer a growth advantage to cancer cells and favor tumor cell proliferation. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100033	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that catalyzes the first step in proline degradation. Mutations in this gene are associated with hyperprolinemia type 1 and susceptibility to schizophrenia 4 (SCZD4). This gene is located on chromosome 22q11.21, a region which has also been associated with the contiguous gene deletion syndromes, DiGeorge and CATCH22. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000072571	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in cell motility. It is expressed in breast tissue and together with other proteins, it forms a complex with BRCA1 and BRCA2, thus is potentially associated with higher risk of breast cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000125124	 This gene is a member of the Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) gene family. Bardet-Biedl syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe pigmentary retinopathy, obesity, polydactyly, renal malformation and mental retardation. The proteins encoded by BBS gene family members are structurally diverse and the similar phenotypes exhibited by mutations in BBS gene family members is likely due to their shared roles in cilia formation and function. Many BBS proteins localize to the basal bodies, ciliary axonemes, and pericentriolar regions of cells. BBS proteins may also be involved in intracellular trafficking via microtubule-related transport. The protein encoded by this gene forms a multiprotein BBSome complex with six other BBS proteins.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000228716	 Dihydrofolate reductase converts dihydrofolate into tetrahydrofolate, a methyl group shuttle required for the de novo synthesis of purines, thymidylic acid, and certain amino acids. While the functional dihydrofolate reductase gene has been mapped to chromosome 5, multiple intronless processed pseudogenes or dihydrofolate reductase-like genes have been identified on separate chromosomes. Dihydrofolate reductase deficiency has been linked to megaloblastic anemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171711	 Defensins form a family of microbicidal and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Members of the defensin family are highly similar in protein sequence. This gene encodes defensin, beta 4, an antibiotic peptide which is locally regulated by inflammation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101160	 The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase and member of the peptidase C1 family. It exhibits both carboxy-monopeptidase and carboxy-dipeptidase activities. The encoded protein has also been known as cathepsin X and cathepsin P. This gene is expressed ubiquitously in cancer cell lines and primary tumors and, like other members of this family, may be involved in tumorigenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000101955	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL606748.9, AL133494.1, AL627246.1 and AL121578.1. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000110060	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the formation of tRNA pseudouridine from tRNA uridine at position 39 in the anticodon stem and loop of transfer RNAs. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000133103	 This gene encodes a subunit of the conserved oligomeric Golgi complex that is required for maintaining normal structure and activity of the Golgi apparatus. The encoded protein is organized with conserved oligomeric Golgi complex components 5, 7 and 8 into a sub-complex referred to as lobe B. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000114374	 This gene is a member of the peptidase C19 family. It encodes a protein that is similar to ubiquitin-specific proteases, which cleave the ubiquitin moiety from ubiquitin-fused precursors and ubiquitinylated proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000165917	 This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that are receptor associated proteins of the synapse. The encoded protein contains a conserved cAMP-dependent protein kinase phosphorylation site, and plays a critical role in clustering and anchoring nicotinic acetylcholine receptors at synaptic sites by linking the receptors to the underlying postsynaptic cytoskeleton, possibly by direct association with actin or spectrin. Mutations in this gene may play a role in postsynaptic congenital myasthenic syndromes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000119509	 This gene encodes a protein containing multiple ankyrin domains and two IQ calmodulin-binding domains. The encoded protein may function in renal tubular development and function, and in left-right axis determination. This protein interacts with nephrocystin and infers a connection between primary cilia function and left-right axis determination. A similar protein in mice interacts with calmodulin. Mutations in this gene have been associated with nephronophthisis type 2. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000104774	 This gene encodes an enzyme that hydrolyzes terminal, non-reducing alpha-D-mannose residues in alpha-D-mannosides. Its activity is necessary for the catabolism of N-linked carbohydrates released during glycoprotein turnover and it is member of family 38 of glycosyl hydrolases. The full length protein is processed in two steps. First, a 49 aa leader sequence is cleaved off and the remainder of the protein is processed into 3 peptides of 70 kDa, 42 kDa (D) and 13/15 kDa (E). Next, the 70 kDa peptide is further processed into three peptides (A, B and C). The A, B and C peptides are disulfide-linked. Defects in this gene have been associated with lysosomal alpha-mannosidosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000126091	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type II membrane protein that catalyzes the transfer of sialic acid from CMP-sialic acid to galactose-containing substrates. The encoded protein is normally found in the Golgi apparatus but can be proteolytically processed to a soluble form. This protein is a member of glycosyltransferase family 29. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive nonsymdromic mental retardation-12 (MRT12). Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000159216	 Core binding factor (CBF) is a heterodimeric transcription factor that binds to the core element of many enhancers and promoters. The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit of CBF and is thought to be involved in the development of normal hematopoiesis. Chromosomal translocations involving this gene are well-documented and have been associated with several types of leukemia. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168781	 This gene encodes a dual functional inositol kinase. The encoded enzyme converts inositol hexakisphosphate to diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate and diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate to bis-diphosphoinositol tetrakisphosphate. This protein may be important for intracellular signaling pathways. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 15.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000106341	 The protein encoded by this gene is found primarily in cerebellar Purkinje cells, where it functions as a protein phosphatase inhibitor. The encoded protein is a substrate for cGMP-dependent protein kinase. An allele of this gene was discovered that increases susceptibility to hypercholesterolemia. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000205413	 This gene encodes a sterile alpha motif domain-containing protein. The encoded protein localizes to the cytoplasm and may play a role in regulating cell proliferation and apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are the cause of normophosphatemic familial tumoral calcinosis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000166164	 This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the bromodomain-containing protein family. The product of this gene has been identified as a component of one form of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex, and as a protein which interacts with p53 and is required for p53-dependent oncogene-induced senescence which prevents tumor growth. Pseudogenes have been described on chromosomes 2, 3, 6, 13 and 14. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000177119	 This gene encodes a multi-pass transmembrane protein that belongs to the anoctamin family. This protein is an essential component for the calcium-dependent exposure of phosphatidylserine on the cell surface. The scrambling of phospholipid occurs in various biological systems, such as when blood platelets are activated, they expose phosphatidylserine to trigger the clotting system. Mutations in this gene are associated with Scott syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000116698	 This gene encodes a protein that is essential for nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD); a process whereby transcripts with premature termination codons are targeted for rapid degradation by a mRNA decay complex. The mRNA decay complex consists, in part, of this protein along with proteins SMG5 and UPF1. The N-terminal domain of this protein is thought to mediate its association with SMG5 or UPF1 while the C-terminal domain interacts with the mRNA decay complex. This protein may therefore couple changes in UPF1 phosphorylation state to the degradation of NMD-candidate transcripts. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000108950	 This locus encodes a protein that is likely secreted and may function in hematopoiesis. A mutation at this locus has been associated with amelogenesis imperfecta and gingival hyperplasia syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000104884	 The nucleotide excision repair pathway is a mechanism to repair damage to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair and is an integral member of the basal transcription factor BTF2/TFIIH complex. The gene product has ATP-dependent DNA helicase activity and belongs to the RAD3/XPD subfamily of helicases. Defects in this gene can result in three different disorders, the cancer-prone syndrome xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group D, trichothiodystrophy, and Cockayne syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000177098	 The protein encoded by this gene is one of several sodium channel beta subunits. These subunits interact with voltage-gated alpha subunits to change sodium channel kinetics. The encoded transmembrane protein forms interchain disulfide bonds with SCN2A. Defects in this gene are a cause of long QT syndrome type 10 (LQT10). Three protein-coding and one non-coding transcript variant have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000147601	 This gene encodes a telomere specific protein which is a component of the telomere nucleoprotein complex. This protein is present at telomeres throughout the cell cycle and functions as an inhibitor of telomerase, acting in cis to limit the elongation of individual chromosome ends. The protein structure contains a C-terminal Myb motif, a dimerization domain near its N-terminus and an acidic N-terminus. Two transcripts of this gene are alternatively spliced products. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110243	 The protein encoded by this gene is an apolipoprotein that plays an important role in regulating the plasma triglyceride levels, a major risk factor for coronary artery disease. It is a component of high density lipoprotein and is highly similar to a rat protein that is upregulated in response to liver injury. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hypertriglyceridemia and hyperlipoproteinemia type 5. This gene is located proximal to the apolipoprotein gene cluster on chromosome 11q23. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000179300	 This gene is a member of a family of gag-related retrotransposon genes. These genes appear to have lost the ability to retrotranspose; however, their open reading frames have remained intact, which may indicate that these genes have acquired new functions in the cell. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000134200	 The four human glycoprotein hormones chorionic gonadotropin (CG), luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) are dimers consisting of alpha and beta subunits that are associated noncovalently. The alpha subunits of these hormones are identical, however, their beta chains are unique and confer biological specificity. Thyroid stimulating hormone functions in the control of thyroid structure and metabolism. The protein encoded by this gene is the beta subunit of thyroid stimulating hormone. Mutations in this gene result in congenital hypothyroidism.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000164061	 Neurotransmitters are released from a specific site in the axon terminal called the active zone, which is composed of synaptic vesicles and a meshwork of cytoskeleton underlying the plasma membrane. The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be a scaffolding protein involved in organizing the presynaptic cytoskeleton. The gene is expressed primarily in neurons in the brain. A similar gene product in rodents is concentrated in the active zone of axon terminals and tightly associated with cytoskeletal structures, and is essential for regulating neurotransmitter release from a subset of synapses. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000086288	 This gene encodes a protein with an N-terminal thioredoxin domain and three C-terminal nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDK) domains, but the NDK domains are thought to be catalytically inactive. The sea urchin ortholog of this gene encodes a component of sperm outer dynein arms, and the protein is implicated in ciliary function. Mutations in this gene are implicated in primary ciliary dyskinesia type 6.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000204842	 The autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCA) are a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive degeneration of the cerebellum, brain stem and spinal cord. Clinically, ADCA has been divided into three groups: ADCA types I-III. Defects in this gene are the cause of spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2). SCA2 belongs to the autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias type I (ADCA I) which are characterized by cerebellar ataxia in combination with additional clinical features like optic atrophy, ophthalmoplegia, bulbar and extrapyramidal signs, peripheral neuropathy and dementia. SCA2 is caused by expansion of a CAG repeat in the coding region of this gene. This locus has been mapped to chromosome 12, and it has been determined that the diseased allele contains 37-50 CAG repeats, compared to 17-29 in the normal allele. Longer expansions result in earlier onset of the disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified but their full length sequence has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000069329	 This gene belongs to a group of vacuolar protein sorting (VPS) genes. The encoded protein is a component of a large multimeric complex, termed the retromer complex, involved in retrograde transport of proteins from endosomes to the trans-Golgi network. The close structural similarity between the yeast and human proteins that make up this complex suggests a similarity in function. Expression studies in yeast and mammalian cells indicate that this protein interacts directly with VPS35, which serves as the core of the retromer complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173039	 NF-kappa-B is a ubiquitous transcription factor involved in several biological processes. It is held in the cytoplasm in an inactive state by specific inhibitors. Upon degradation of the inhibitor, NF-kappa-B moves to the nucleus and activates transcription of specific genes. NF-kappa-B is composed of NFKB1 or NFKB2 bound to either REL, RELA, or RELB. The most abundant form of NF-kappa-B is NFKB1 complexed with the product of this gene, RELA. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000111275	 This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the second enzyme of the major oxidative pathway of alcohol metabolism. Two major liver isoforms of aldehyde dehydrogenase, cytosolic and mitochondrial, can be distinguished by their electrophoretic mobilities, kinetic properties, and subcellular localizations. Most Caucasians have two major isozymes, while approximately 50% of Orientals have the cytosolic isozyme but not the mitochondrial isozyme. A remarkably higher frequency of acute alcohol intoxication among Orientals than among Caucasians could be related to the absence of a catalytically active form of the mitochondrial isozyme. The increased exposure to acetaldehyde in individuals with the catalytically inactive form may also confer greater susceptibility to many types of cancer. This gene encodes a mitochondrial isoform, which has a low Km for acetaldehydes, and is localized in mitochondrial matrix. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000187742	 The incorporation of selenocysteine into a protein requires the concerted action of an mRNA element called a sec insertion sequence (SECIS), a selenocysteine-specific translation elongation factor and a SECIS binding protein. With these elements in place, a UGA codon can be decoded as selenocysteine. The gene described in this record encodes a nuclear protein that functions as a SECIS binding protein. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a reduction in activity of a specific thyroxine deiodinase, a selenocysteine-containing enzyme, and abnormal thyroid hormone metabolism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000027847	 This gene is a member of the beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT) family. Family members encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose. Each beta4GalT member has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of different glycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, they have an N-terminal hydrophobic signal sequence that directs the protein to the Golgi apparatus which then remains uncleaved to function as a transmembrane anchor. The enzyme encoded by this gene attaches the first galactose in the common carbohydrate-protein linkage (GlcA-beta1,3-Gal-beta1,3-Gal-beta1,4-Xyl-beta1-O-Ser) found in proteoglycans. This enzyme differs from other beta4GalTs because it lacks the conserved Cys residues found in beta4GalT1-beta4GalT6 and it is located in cis-Golgi instead of trans-Golgi. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the progeroid form of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000129673	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acetyltransferase superfamily. It is the penultimate enzyme in melatonin synthesis and controls the night/day rhythm in melatonin production in the vertebrate pineal gland. Melatonin is essential for the function of the circadian clock that influences activity and sleep. This enzyme is regulated by cAMP-dependent phosphorylation that promotes its interaction with 14-3-3 proteins and thus protects the enzyme against proteasomal degradation. This gene may contribute to numerous genetic diseases such as delayed sleep phase syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000182473	 The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the exocyst complex. The exocyst complex plays a critical role in vesicular trafficking and the secretory pathway by targeting post-Golgi vesicles to the plasma membrane. The encoded protein is required for assembly of the exocyst complex and docking of the complex to the plasma membrane. The encoded protein may also play a role in pre-mRNA splicing through interactions with pre-mRNA-processing factor 19. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 4. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000102038	 This gene encodes a member of the SWI/SNF family of proteins. Members of this family have helicase and ATPase activities and are thought to regulate transcription of certain genes by altering the chromatin structure around those genes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120498	 This gene is X-linked and is expressed in only male germ cells. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130234	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the angiotensin-converting enzyme family of dipeptidyl carboxydipeptidases and has considerable homology to human angiotensin 1 converting enzyme. This secreted protein catalyzes the cleavage of angiotensin I into angiotensin 1-9, and angiotensin II into the vasodilator angiotensin 1-7. The organ- and cell-specific expression of this gene suggests that it may play a role in the regulation of cardiovascular and renal function, as well as fertility. In addition, the encoded protein is a functional receptor for the spike glycoprotein of the human coronaviruses SARS and HCoV-NL63. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147206	 This gene is one member of a family of nuclear RNA export factor genes. Common domain features of this family are a noncanonical RNP-type RNA-binding domain (RBD), 4 leucine-rich repeats (LRRs), a nuclear transport factor 2 (NTF2)-like domain that allows heterodimerization with NTF2-related export protein-1 (NXT1), and a ubiquitin-associated domain that mediates interactions with nucleoporins. The LRRs and NTF2-like domains are required for export activity. Alternative splicing seems to be a common mechanism in this gene family. The encoded protein of this gene has shortened LRR and ubiquitin-associated domains and its RDB is unable to bind RNA. It is located in the nucleoplasm but is not associated with either the nuclear envelope or the nucleolus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128918	 This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. The product of this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of retinoic acid (RA) from retinaldehyde. Retinoic acid, the active derivative of vitamin A (retinol), is a hormonal signaling molecule that functions in developing and adult tissues. The studies of a similar mouse gene suggest that this enzyme and the cytochrome CYP26A1, concurrently establish local embryonic retinoic acid levels which facilitate posterior organ development and prevent spina bifida. Four transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000082175	 This gene encodes a member of the steroid receptor superfamily. The encoded protein mediates the physiological effects of progesterone, which plays a central role in reproductive events associated with the establishment and maintenance of pregnancy. This gene uses two distinct promotors and translation start sites in the first exon to produce two isoforms, A and B. The two isoforms are identical except for the additional 165 amino acids found in the N-terminus of isoform B and mediate their own response genes and physiologic effects with little overlap. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000167632	 This gene encodes a protein that likely plays a role in NF-kappa-B signaling. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal-recessive mental retardation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000102967	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the fourth enzymatic step, the ubiquinone-mediated oxidation of dihydroorotate to orotate, in de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis. This protein is a mitochondrial protein located on the outer surface of the inner mitochondrial membrane. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119535	 The protein encoded by this gene is the receptor for colony stimulating factor 3, a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of granulocytes. The encoded protein, which is a member of the family of cytokine receptors, may also function in some cell surface adhesion or recognition processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. Mutations in this gene are a cause of Kostmann syndrome, also known as severe congenital neutropenia. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000103241	 This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors which is characterized by a distinct forkhead domain.  The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, it may play a role in the regulation of pulmonary genes as well as embryonic development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102678	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities, and are involved in a variety of biological processes, including embryonic development, cell growth, morphogenesis, tissue repair, tumor growth and invasion. This protein was isolated as a secreted factor that exhibits a growth-stimulating effect on cultured glial cells. In nervous system, this protein is produced mainly by neurons and may be important for glial cell development. Expression of the mouse homolog of this gene was found to be dependent on Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling. Mice lacking the homolog gene displayed a male-to-female sex reversal phenotype, which suggested a role in testicular embryogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110324	 The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for interleukin 10. This protein is structurally related to interferon receptors. It has been shown to mediate the immunosuppressive signal of interleukin 10, and thus inhibits the synthesis of proinflammatory cytokines. This receptor is reported to promote survival of progenitor myeloid cells through the insulin receptor substrate-2/PI 3-kinase/AKT pathway. Activation of this receptor leads to tyrosine phosphorylation of JAK1 and TYK2 kinases. Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other not protein-coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000019991	 Hepatocyte growth factor regulates cell growth, cell motility, and morphogenesis by activating a tyrosine kinase signaling cascade after binding to the proto-oncogenic c-Met receptor. Hepatocyte growth factor is secreted by mesenchymal cells and acts as a multi-functional cytokine on cells of mainly epithelial origin. Its ability to stimulate mitogenesis, cell motility, and matrix invasion gives it a central role in angiogenesis, tumorogenesis, and tissue regeneration. It is secreted as a single inactive polypeptide and is cleaved by serine proteases into a 69-kDa alpha-chain and 34-kDa beta-chain. A disulfide bond between the alpha and beta chains produces the active, heterodimeric molecule. The protein belongs to the plasminogen subfamily of S1 peptidases but has no detectable protease activity. Alternative splicing of this gene produces multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183753	 This gene is located in the nonrecombining portion of the Y chromosome, and expressed specifically in testis. The encoded protein interacts with ubiquitin protein ligase E3A and may be involved in male germ cell development and male infertility. Three nearly identical copies of this gene exist on chromosome Y; two copies are part of a palindromic region. This record represents the copy outside of the palidromic region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140876	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Nudix hydrolase family. Nudix hydrolases eliminate potentially toxic nucleotide metabolites from the cell and regulate the concentrations and availability of many different nucleotide substrates, cofactors, and signaling molecules. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000133703	 This gene, a Kirsten ras oncogene homolog from the mammalian ras gene family, encodes a protein that is a member of the small GTPase superfamily. A single amino acid substitution is responsible for an activating mutation. The transforming protein that results is implicated in various malignancies, including lung adenocarcinoma, mucinous adenoma, ductal carcinoma of the pancreas and colorectal carcinoma. Alternative splicing leads to variants encoding two isoforms that differ in the C-terminal region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000146926	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ankyrin repeat and SOCS box-containing (ASB) family of proteins. The SOCS box serves to couple suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) proteins and their binding partners with the elongin B and C complex, possibly targeting them for degradation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000143947	 Ubiquitin, a highly conserved protein that has a major role in targeting cellular proteins for degradation by the 26S proteosome, is synthesized as a precursor protein consisting of either polyubiquitin chains or a single ubiquitin fused to an unrelated protein. This gene encodes a fusion protein consisting of ubiquitin at the N terminus and ribosomal protein S27a at the C terminus. When expressed in yeast, the protein is post-translationally processed, generating free ubiquitin monomer and ribosomal protein S27a. Ribosomal protein S27a is a component of the 40S subunit of the ribosome and belongs to the S27AE family of ribosomal proteins. It contains C4-type zinc finger domains and is located in the cytoplasm. Pseudogenes derived from this gene are present in the genome. As with ribosomal protein S27a, ribosomal protein L40 is also synthesized as a fusion protein with ubiquitin; similarly, ribosomal protein S30 is synthesized as a fusion protein with the ubiquitin-like protein fubi. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same proteins have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000115268	 Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 40S subunit. The protein belongs to the S19P family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. This gene has been found to be activated in various tumors, such as insulinomas, esophageal cancers, and colon cancers. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000141510	 This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein containing transcriptional activation, DNA binding, and oligomerization domains. The encoded protein responds to diverse cellular stresses to regulate expression of target genes, thereby inducing cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, senescence, DNA repair, or changes in metabolism. Mutations in this gene are associated with a variety of human cancers, including hereditary cancers such as Li-Fraumeni syndrome. Alternative splicing of this gene and the use of alternate promoters result in multiple transcript variants and isoforms. Additional isoforms have also been shown to result from the use of alternate translation initiation codons (PMIDs: 12032546, 20937277). [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013].  Publication Note:  This RefSeq record includes a subset of the publications that are available for this gene. Please see the Gene record to access additional publications. 
ENSG00000166349	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in activation of immunoglobulin V-D-J recombination. The encoded protein is involved in recognition of the DNA substrate, but stable binding and cleavage activity also requires RAG2. Defects in this gene can be the cause of several diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Publication Note:  This RefSeq record includes a subset of the publications that are available for this gene. Please see the Gene record to access additional publications. 
ENSG00000150093	 Integrins are heterodimeric proteins made up of alpha and beta subunits. At least 18 alpha and 8 beta subunits have been described in mammals. Integrin family members are membrane receptors involved in cell adhesion and recognition in a variety of processes including embryogenesis, hemostasis, tissue repair, immune response and metastatic diffusion of tumor cells. This gene encodes a beta subunit. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants which encode different protein isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106100	 This gene encodes a member of the NOD (nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain) family. This member is a cytosolic protein. It contains an N-terminal caspase recruitment domain (CARD), a centrally located nucleotide-binding domain (NBD), and 10 tandem leucine-rich repeats (LRRs) in its C terminus. The CARD is involved in apoptotic signaling, LRRs participate in protein-protein interactions, and mutations in the NBD may affect the process of oligomerization and subsequent function of the LRR domain. This protein is an intracellular pattern-recognition receptor (PRR) that initiates inflammation in response to a subset of bacteria through the detection of bacterial diaminopimelic acid. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants differring in the 5' UTR have been described, but the full-length nature of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000132464	 Dental enamel forms the outer cap of teeth and is the hardest substance found in vertebrates. This gene encodes the largest protein in the enamel matrix of developing teeth. The protein is involved in the mineralization and structural organization of enamel. Defects in this gene result in amelogenesis imperfect type 1C.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000107789	 This gene encodes multiple inositol polyphosphate phosphatase; an enzyme that removes 3-phosphate from inositol phosphate substrates. It is the only enzyme known to hydrolzye inositol pentakisphosphate and inositol hexakisphosphate. This enzyme also converts 2,3 bisphosphoglycerate (2,3-BPG) to 2-phosphoglycerate; an activity formerly thought to be exclusive to 2,3-BPG synthase/2-phosphatase (BPGM) in the Rapoport-Luebering shunt of the glycolytic pathway.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000109062	 This gene encodes a sodium/hydrogen exchanger regulatory cofactor. The protein interacts with and regulates various proteins including the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator and G-protein coupled receptors such as the beta2-adrenergic receptor and the parathyroid hormone 1 receptor. The protein also interacts with proteins that function as linkers between integral membrane and cytoskeletal proteins. The protein localizes to actin-rich structures including membrane ruffles, microvilli, and filopodia. Mutations in this gene result in hypophosphatemic nephrolithiasis/osteoporosis type 2, and loss of heterozygosity of this gene is implicated in breast cancer.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000121053	 This gene is a member of the peroxidase gene family and is expressed in eosinophils. The encoded precursor protein is processed into covalently attached heavy and light chains to form the mature enzyme, which functions as an oxidant. The enzyme is released at sites of parasitic infection or allergen stimulation to mediate lysis of protozoa or parasitic worms. The gene is found in a cluster of three peroxidase genes at chromosome 17q23. Mutations in this gene result in eosinophil peroxidase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000102755	 This gene encodes a member of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) family. VEGFR family members are receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) which contain an extracellular ligand-binding region with seven immunoglobulin (Ig)-like domains, a transmembrane segment, and a tyrosine kinase (TK) domain within the cytoplasmic domain. This protein binds to VEGFR-A, VEGFR-B and placental growth factor and plays an important role in angiogenesis and vasculogenesis. Expression of this receptor is found in vascular endothelial cells, placental trophoblast cells and peripheral blood monocytes. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Isoforms include a full-length transmembrane receptor isoform and shortened, soluble isoforms. The soluble isoforms are associated with the onset of pre-eclampsia.[provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000204257	 HLA-DMA belongs to the HLA class II alpha chain paralogues. This class II molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha (DMA) and a beta chain (DMB), both anchored in the membrane. It is located in intracellular vesicles. DM plays a central role in the peptide loading of MHC class II molecules by helping to release the CLIP molecule from the peptide binding site. Class II molecules are expressed in antigen presenting cells (APC: B lymphocytes, dendritic cells, macrophages). The alpha chain is approximately 33-35 kDa and its gene contains 5 exons. Exon one encodes the leader peptide, exons 2 and 3 encode the two extracellular domains, exon 4 encodes the transmembrane domain and the cytoplasmic tail. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204252	 HLA-DOA belongs to the HLA class II alpha chain paralogues. HLA-DOA forms a heterodimer with HLA-DOB. The heterodimer, HLA-DO, is found in lysosomes in B cells and regulates HLA-DM-mediated peptide loading on MHC class II molecules. In comparison with classical HLA class II molecules, this gene exhibits very little sequence variation, especially at the protein level. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000256525	 This gene encodes the processivity subunit of the mitochondrial DNA polymerase gamma. The encoded protein forms a heterotrimer containing one catalytic subunit and two processivity subunits. This protein enhances DNA binding and promotes processive DNA synthesis. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial DNA deletions.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000089682	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL390039.10. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000203923	 This gene represents one of several duplicated family members that are located on chromosome X. This gene family encodes proteins that play a role in spermiogenesis. These proteins represent a specific subgroup of cancer/testis-associated antigens, and they may be candidates for tumor vaccines. This family member belongs to a subgroup of related genes that are present in all primates and rats and mice, and thus, it represents one of the ancestral family members. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000183631	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL662896.9. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000177854	 This gene consists of two exons and encodes a multi-pass membrane protein. An alternatively spliced transcript variant encoding the same protein has been found, but its biological validity is not determined. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000139330	 The protein encoded by this gene is a keratan sulfate proteoglycan that is involved in corneal transparency. Defects in this gene are a cause of autosomal recessive cornea plana 2 (CNA2).[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000046774	 This gene is a member of the MAGEC gene family. It is not expressed in normal tissues, except for testis, and is expressed in tumors of various histological types. This gene and the other MAGEC genes are clustered on chromosome Xq26-q27. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000130830	 This gene encodes the prototype of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family proteins. MAGUKs interact with the cytoskeleton and regulate cell proliferation, signaling pathways, and intercellular junctions. The encoded protein is an extensively palmitoylated membrane phosphoprotein containing a PDZ domain, a Src homology 3 (SH3) motif, and a guanylate kinase domain. This gene product interacts with various cytoskeletal proteins and cell junctional proteins in different tissue and cell types, and may be involved in the regulation of cell shape, hair cell development, neural patterning of the retina, and apico-basal polarity and tumor suppression pathways in non-erythroid cells. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000120289	 This gene is a member of the MAGEB gene family. The members of this family have their entire coding sequences located in the last exon, and the encoded proteins show 50 to 68% sequence identity to each other. The promoters and first exons of the MAGEB genes show considerable variability, suggesting that the existence of this gene family enables the same function to be expressed under different transcriptional controls. The MAGEB genes are clustered on chromosome Xp22-p21. This gene sequence ends in the first intron of MAGEB1, another family member. This gene is expressed in testis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000155495	 This gene is a member of the melanoma antigen gene (MAGE) family. The proteins of this family are tumor-specific antigens that can be recognized by autologous cytolytic T lymphocytes. This protein contains a large number of unique short repetitive sequences in front of the MAGE-homologous sequence, and therefore is about 800 aa longer than the other MAGE proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102034	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional activator that binds and activates the promoters of the CSF2, IL3, IL8, and PRF1 genes. The encoded protein is involved in natural killer cell development and function, innate immunity, and induction of cell cycle arrest in naive CD8+ cells. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000196338	 This gene encodes a member of a family of neuronal cell surface proteins. Members of this family may act as splice site-specific ligands for beta-neurexins and may be involved in the formation and remodeling of central nervous system synapses. Mutations in this gene may be associated with autism and Asperger syndrome. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000174697	 This gene encodes a protein that is secreted by white adipocytes, and which plays a major role in the regulation of body weight. This protein, which acts through the leptin receptor, functions as part of a signaling pathway that can inhibit food intake and/or regulate energy expenditure to maintain constancy of the adipose mass. This protein also has several endocrine functions, and is involved in the regulation of immune and inflammatory responses, hematopoiesis, angiogenesis and wound healing. Mutations in this gene and/or its regulatory regions cause severe obesity, and morbid obesity with hypogonadism. This gene has also been linked to type 2 diabetes mellitus development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157916	 The protein encoded by this gene is a multi-pass membrane protein that is localized to the golgi apparatus. It is involved in the retention of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane proteins in the ER and retrieval of ER membrane proteins from the early Golgi compartment to facilitate gamma-secretase complex assembly. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000143368	 This gene encodes one of four subunits of the splicing factor 3B. The protein encoded by this gene cross-links to a region in the pre-mRNA immediately upstream of the branchpoint sequence in pre-mRNA in the prespliceosomal complex A. It also may be involved in the assembly of the B, C and E spliceosomal complexes. In addition to RNA-binding activity, this protein interacts directly and highly specifically with subunit 2 of the splicing factor 3B. This protein contains two N-terminal RNA-recognition motifs (RRMs), consistent with the observation that it binds directly to pre-mRNA. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000180921	 The protein encoded by this gene plays an important role in the structural development and calcification of tooth enamel. Defects in this gene are a cause of amelogenesis imperfecta type 3 (AI3). [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000137561	 This gene encodes a soluble protein that binds alpha-trocopherol, a form of vitamin E, with high selectivity and affinity. This protein plays an important role in regulating vitamin E levels in the body by transporting vitamin E between membrane vesicles and facilitating the secretion of vitamin E from hepatocytes to circulating lipoproteins. Mutations in this gene cause hereditary vitamin E deficiency (ataxia with vitamin E deficiency, AVED) and retinitis pigmentosa. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000092330	 This gene encodes one of the proteins of the shelterin, or telosome, complex which protects telomeres by allowing the cell to distinguish between telomeres and regions of DNA damage. The protein encoded by this gene is a critical part of shelterin; it interacts with the three DNA-binding proteins of the shelterin complex, and it is important for assembly of the complex. Mutations in this gene cause dyskeratosis congenita (DKC), an inherited bone marrow failure syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000104055	 This gene encodes a member of the transglutaminase family. The encoded protein catalyzes formation of protein cross-links between glutamine and lysine residues, often resulting in stabilization of protein assemblies. This reaction is calcium dependent. Mutations in this gene have been associated with acral peeling skin syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000147571	 Corticotropin-releasing hormone is secreted by the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus in response to stress. Marked reduction in this protein has been observed in association with Alzheimer disease and autosomal recessive hypothalamic corticotropin deficiency has multiple and potentially fatal metabolic consequences including hypoglycemia and hepatitis. In addition to production in the hypothalamus, this protein is also synthesized in peripheral tissues, such as T lymphocytes and is highly expressed in the placenta. In the placenta it is a marker that determines the length of gestation and the timing of parturition and delivery. A rapid increase in circulating levels of the hormone occurs at the onset of parturition, suggesting that, in addition to its metabolic functions, this protein may act as a trigger for parturition. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000148384	 The protein encoded by this gene is an inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3) 5-phosphatase. InsP3 5-phosphatases hydrolyze Ins(1,4,5)P3, which mobilizes intracellular calcium and acts as a second messenger mediating cell responses to various stimulation. Studies of the mouse counterpart suggest that this protein may hydrolyze phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate and phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate on the cytoplasmic Golgi membrane and thereby regulate Golgi-vesicular trafficking. Mutations in this gene cause Joubert syndrome; a clinically and genetically heterogenous group of disorders characterized by midbrain-hindbrain malformation and various associated ciliopathies that include retinal dystrophy, nephronophthisis, liver fibrosis and polydactyly.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000185973	 This gene encodes the protein trimethyllysine dioxygenase which is the first enzyme in the carnitine biosynthesis pathway. Carnitine play an essential role in the transport of activated fatty acids across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The encoded protein converts trimethyllysine into hydroxytrimethyllysine. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome X. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000165194	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the delta-2 protocadherin subclass of the cadherin superfamily. The encoded protein is thought to be a calcium-dependent cell-adhesion protein that is primarily expressed in the brain. Defects in this gene are a cause of epilepsy female-restricted with mental retardation (EFMR). Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000182199	 This gene encodes the mitochondrial form of a pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzyme that catalyzes the reversible reaction of serine and tetrahydrofolate to glycine and 5,10-methylene tetrahydrofolate. The encoded product is primarily responsible for glycine synthesis. The activity of the encoded protein has been suggested to be the primary source of intracellular glycine. The gene which encodes the cytosolic form of this enzyme is located on chromosome 17. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000065911	 This gene encodes a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial bifunctional enzyme with methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase and methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydrolase activities. The enzyme functions as a homodimer and is unique in its absolute requirement for magnesium and inorganic phosphate. Formation of the enzyme-magnesium complex allows binding of NAD. Alternative splicing results in two different transcripts, one protein-coding and the other not protein-coding. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome 7. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000159131	 The protein encoded by this gene is a trifunctional polypeptide. It has phosphoribosylglycinamide formyltransferase, phosphoribosylglycinamide synthetase, phosphoribosylaminoimidazole synthetase activity which is required for de novo purine biosynthesis. This enzyme is highly conserved in vertebrates. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000068394	 This gene encodes a protein with G-patch and KOW domains which are involved in RNA binding. The encoded protein may be orthologous to the Arabidopsis protein, modifier of snc 1, 2, which contains the same domains and is required for innate resistance to some pathogens (PMID: 16271871). [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000147183	 This gene is one of several genes identified in a region of the X chromosome associated with an X-linked cleft palate (CPX) disorder. The encoded protein contains a motif similar to a motif found in zinc-finger proteins. Mutation analysis of this gene has not revealed any mutation which causes the CPX disorder. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000130119	 The protein encoded by this gene appears to be a nucleolar GTPase that is essential for ribosomal pre-rRNA processing and cell proliferation. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000099250	 This gene encodes one of two neuropilins, which contain specific protein domains which allow them to participate in several different types of signaling pathways that control cell migration. Neuropilins contain a large N-terminal extracellular domain, made up of complement-binding, coagulation factor V/VIII, and meprin domains. These proteins also contains a short membrane-spanning domain and a small cytoplasmic domain. Neuropilins bind many ligands and various types of co-receptors; they affect cell survival, migration, and attraction. Some of the ligands and co-receptors bound by neuropilins are vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and semaphorin family members. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000101144	 The bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are a family of secreted signaling molecules that can induce ectopic bone growth. Many BMPs are part of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGFB) superfamily. BMPs were originally identified by an ability of demineralized bone extract to induce endochondral osteogenesis in vivo in an extraskeletal site. Based on its expression early in embryogenesis, the BMP encoded by this gene has a proposed role in early development and possible bone inductive activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164078	 This gene encodes a cell surface receptor for macrophage-stimulating protein (MSP) with tyrosine kinase activity. The mature form of this protein is a heterodimer of disulfide-linked alpha and beta subunits, generated by proteolytic cleavage of a single-chain precursor. The beta subunit undergoes tyrosine phosphorylation upon stimulation by MSP. This protein is expressed on the ciliated epithelia of the mucociliary transport apparatus of the lung, and together with MSP, thought to be involved in host defense. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms with different structural and biochemical properties have been described (PMID:8816464). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000182566	 This gene encodes a glycan-binding receptor and member of the C-type lectin family which plays a role in the T-cell immune response. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000130826	 This gene is a member of the H/ACA snoRNPs (small nucleolar ribonucleoproteins) gene family. snoRNPs are involved in various aspects of rRNA processing and modification and have been classified into two families: C/D and H/ACA. The H/ACA snoRNPs also include the NOLA1, 2 and 3 proteins. The protein encoded by this gene and the three NOLA proteins localize to the dense fibrillar components of nucleoli and to coiled (Cajal) bodies in the nucleus. Both 18S rRNA production and rRNA pseudouridylation are impaired if any one of the four proteins is depleted. These four H/ACA snoRNP proteins are also components of the telomerase complex. The protein encoded by this gene is related to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cbf5p and Drosophila melanogaster Nop60B proteins. The gene lies in a tail-to-tail orientation with the palmitoylated erythrocyte membrane protein gene and is transcribed in a telomere to centromere direction. Both nucleotide substitutions and single trinucleotide repeat polymorphisms have been found in this gene. Mutations in this gene cause X-linked dyskeratosis congenita, a disease resulting in reticulate skin pigmentation, mucosal leukoplakia, nail dystrophy, and progressive bone marrow failure in most cases. Mutations in this gene also cause Hoyeraal-Hreidarsson syndrome, which is a more severe form of dyskeratosis congenita. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000204475	 The protein encoded by this gene is a natural cytotoxicity receptor (NCR) that may aid NK cells in the lysis of tumor cells. The encoded protein interacts with CD3-zeta (CD247), a T-cell receptor. A single nucleotide polymorphism in the 5' untranslated region of this gene has been associated with mild malaria suceptibility. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000188452	 This gene was initially identified as a locus (RP26) associated with an autosomal recessive form of retinitis pigmentosa (arRP) disease. This gene encodes a protein with ceramide kinase-like domains, however, the protein does not phosphorylate ceramide and its target substrate is currently unknown. This protein may be a negative regulator of apoptosis in photoreceptor cells. Mutations in this gene cause a form of retinitis pigmentosa characterized by autosomal recessive cone and rod dystrophy (arCRD). Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms and non-coding transcripts.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000152779	 This gene encodes a transmembrane transporter that likely plays a role in monocarboxylic acid transport. A mutation in this gene has been associated with juvenile cataracts with microcornea and renal glucosuria. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000164022	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that is specifically induced by apoptosis, and it is involved in the control of angiogenesis, inflammation, and wound healing. The release of this cytokine renders the tumor-associated vasculature sensitive to tumor necrosis factor. The precursor protein is identical to the p43 subunit, which is associated with the multi-tRNA synthetase complex, and it modulates aminoacylation activity of tRNA synthetase in normal cells. This protein is also involved in the stimulation of inflammatory responses after proteolytic cleavage in tumor cells. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 20. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000134640	 This gene encodes one of two high affinity forms of a receptor for melatonin, the primary hormone secreted by the pineal gland. This gene product is an integral membrane protein that is a G-protein coupled, 7-transmembrane receptor. It is found primarily in the retina and brain although this detection requires RT-PCR. It is thought to participate in light-dependent functions in the retina and may be involved in the neurobiological effects of melatonin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000213316	 The MAPEG (Membrane Associated Proteins in Eicosanoid and Glutathione metabolism) family includes a number of human proteins, several of which are involved the production of leukotrienes. This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the first step in the biosynthesis of cysteinyl leukotrienes, potent biological compounds derived from arachidonic acid. Leukotrienes have been implicated as mediators of anaphylaxis and inflammatory conditions such as human bronchial asthma. This protein localizes to the nuclear envelope and adjacent endoplasmic reticulum. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000158517	 The protein encoded by this gene is a 47 kDa cytosolic subunit of neutrophil NADPH oxidase. This oxidase is a multicomponent enzyme that is activated to produce superoxide anion. Mutations in this gene have been associated with chronic granulomatous disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000103051	 The protein encoded by this gene is a component of an oligomeric protein complex involved in the structure and function of the Golgi apparatus. Defects in this gene may be a cause of congenital disorder of glycosylation type IIj. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000070061	 The protein encoded by this gene is a scaffold protein and a regulator for 3 different kinases involved in proinflammatory signaling. This encoded protein can bind NF-kappa-B-inducing kinase (NIK) and IKKs through separate domains and assemble them into an active kinase complex. Mutations in this gene have been associated with familial dysautonomia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000073008	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane glycoprotein belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily. The external domain mediates cell attachment to the extracellular matrix molecule vitronectin, while its intracellular domain interacts with the dynein light chain Tctex-1/DYNLT1. The gene is specific to the primate lineage, and serves as a cellular receptor for poliovirus in the first step of poliovirus replication. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000102271	 This gene encodes a member of the kelch family of proteins, which are characterized by kelch repeat motifs and a POZ/BTB protein-binding domain. It is thought that kelch repeats are actin binding domains. However, the specific function of this protein has not been determined. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126733	 This gene is one of two genes which encode a protein similar to the Drosophila protein dachshund, a transcription factor involved in cell fate determination in the eye, limb and genital disc of the fly. The encoded protein contains two characteristic dachshund domains: an N-terminal domain responsible for DNA binding and a C-terminal domain responsible for protein-protein interactions. This gene is located on the X chromosome and is subject to inactivation by DNA methylation. The encoded protein may be involved in regulation of organogenesis and myogenesis, and may play a role in premature ovarian failure. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000058668	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type primary ion transport ATPases characterized by the formation of an aspartyl phosphate intermediate during the reaction cycle. These enzymes remove bivalent calcium ions from eukaryotic cells against very large concentration gradients and play a critical role in intracellular calcium homeostasis. The mammalian plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoforms are encoded by at least four separate genes and the diversity of these enzymes is further increased by alternative splicing of transcripts. The expression of different isoforms and splice variants is regulated in a developmental, tissue- and cell type-specific manner, suggesting that these pumps are functionally adapted to the physiological needs of particular cells and tissues. This gene encodes the plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 4. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157538	 The region of chromosome 21 between genes CBR and ERG (CBR-ERG region), which spans 2.5 Mb on 21q22.2, has been defined by analysis of patients with partial trisomy 21. It contributes significantly to the pathogenesis of many characteristics of Down syndrome, including morphological features, hypotonia, and mental retardation. The DSCR3 (Down syndrome critical region gene 3) gene is found in this region and is predictated to contain eight exons. DSCR3 is expressed in most tissues examined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000172399	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of sarcomeric proteins that bind to calcineurin, a phosphatase involved in calcium-dependent signal transduction in diverse cell types. These family members tether calcineurin to alpha-actinin at the z-line of the sarcomere of cardiac and skeletal muscle cells, and thus they are important for calcineurin signaling. Mutations in this gene cause cardiomyopathy familial hypertrophic type 16, a hereditary heart disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000013374	 This gene encodes a protein that functions as a negative regulator of NEDD8, a ubiquitin-like protein that conjugates with cullin family members in order to regulate vital biological events. The protein encoded by this gene regulates the NEDD8 conjugation system post-transcriptionally by recruiting NEDD8 and its conjugates to the proteasome for degradation. This protein interacts with the product of the AIPL1 gene, which is associated with Leber congenital amaurosis, an inherited retinopathy, and mutations in that gene can abolish interaction with this protein, which may contribute to the pathogenesis. This protein is also known to accumulate in Lewy bodies in Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies, and in glial cytoplasmic inclusions in multiple system atrophy, with this abnormal accumulation being specific to alpha-synucleinopathy lesions. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000023572	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the glutaredoxin family of proteins, which maintain cellular thiol homeostasis. These proteins are thiol-disulfide oxidoreductases that use a glutathione-binding site and one or two active cysteines in their active site. This gene undergoes alternative splicing to produce multiple isoforms, one of which is ubiquitously expressed and localizes to mitochondria, where it functions in mitochondrial redox homeostasis and is important for the protection against and recovery from oxidative stress. Other isoforms, which have more restrictive expression patterns, show cytosolic and nuclear localization, and are thought to function in cellular differentiation and transformation, possibly with a role in tumor progression. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000117152	 Regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) family members are regulatory molecules that act as GTPase activating proteins (GAPs) for G alpha subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins. RGS proteins are able to deactivate G protein subunits of the Gi alpha, Go alpha and Gq alpha subtypes. They drive G proteins into their inactive GDP-bound forms. Regulator of G protein signaling 4 belongs to this family. All RGS proteins share a conserved 120-amino acid sequence termed the RGS domain. Regulator of G protein signaling 4 protein is 37% identical to RGS1 and 97% identical to rat Rgs4. This protein negatively regulate signaling upstream or at the level of the heterotrimeric G protein and is localized in the cytoplasm. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147124	 This gene product is a likely zinc finger family transcription factor. It contains KRAB-A and KRAB-B domains that act as transcriptional repressors in related proteins, and multiple zinc finger DNA binding motifs and finger linking regions characteristic of the Kruppel family. This gene is part of a gene cluster on chromosome Xp11.23. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, however, the full-length nature of only some of them is known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175535	 This gene is a member of the lipase gene family. It encodes a carboxyl esterase that hydrolyzes insoluble, emulsified triglycerides, and is essential for the efficient digestion of dietary fats. This gene is expressed specifically in the pancreas. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000107147	 Potassium channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. This gene encodes a sodium-activated potassium channel subunit which is thought to function in ion conductance and developmental signaling pathways. Mutations in this gene cause the early-onset epileptic disorders, malignant migrating partial seizures of infancy and autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000100453	 Cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL) and natural killer (NK) cells share the remarkable ability to recognize, bind, and lyse specific target cells. They are thought to protect their host by lysing cells bearing on their surface 'nonself' antigens, usually peptides or proteins resulting from infection by intracellular pathogens. The protein encoded by this gene is crucial for the rapid induction of target cell apoptosis by CTL in cell-mediated immune response. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178093	 This intronless gene encodes a member of the CAMK (calcium/calmodulin-dependent) serine/threonine protein kinase family. The encoded kinase has a broad expression pattern but is described as testis-specific due to effects on fertility. Male mice which lack the gene encoding a highly similar protein are sterile and have morphologically abnormal sperm. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000227268	 The protein encoded by this intronless gene is found in the nucleus, where it can inhibit DNA synthesis and promote S phase arrest coupled to apoptosis. The expression of this DNA binding protein is upregulated by transcription factor p53. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000167306	 The protein encoded by this gene, together with other proteins, may be involved in plasma membrane recycling. Mutations in this gene are associated with microvillous inclusion disease. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000162896	 This gene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The encoded poly-Ig receptor binds polymeric immunoglobulin molecules at the basolateral surface of epithelial cells; the complex is then transported across the cell to be secreted at the apical surface. A significant association was found between immunoglobulin A nephropathy and several SNPs in this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000175206	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the natriuretic peptide family. Natriuretic peptides are implicated in the control of extracellular fluid volume and electrolyte homeostasis. This protein is synthesized as a large precursor (containing a signal peptide), which is processed to release a peptide from the N-terminus with similarity to vasoactive peptide, cardiodilatin, and another peptide from the C-terminus with natriuretic-diuretic activity. Mutations in this gene have been associated with atrial fibrillation familial type 6. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000166710	 This gene encodes a serum protein found in association with the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I heavy chain on the surface of nearly all nucleated cells. The protein has a predominantly beta-pleated sheet structure that can form amyloid fibrils in some pathological conditions. A mutation in this gene has been shown to result in hypercatabolic hypoproteinemia.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000104812	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the addition of glucose monomers to the growing glycogen molecule through the formation of alpha-1,4-glycoside linkages. Mutations in this gene are associated with muscle glycogen storage disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000082701	 The protein encoded by this gene is a serine-threonine kinase, belonging to the glycogen synthase kinase subfamily. It is involved in energy metabolism, neuronal cell development, and body pattern formation. Polymorphisms in this gene have been implicated in modifying risk of Parkinson disease, and studies in mice show that overexpression of this gene may be relevant to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000162438	 This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S1 family. The encoded protein is a serum calcium-decreasing factor that has chymotrypsin-like protease activity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed, but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170734	 This gene encodes a member of the Y family of specialized DNA polymerases. It copies undamaged DNA with a lower fidelity than other DNA-directed polymerases. However, it accurately replicates UV-damaged DNA; when thymine dimers are present, this polymerase inserts the complementary nucleotides in the newly synthesized DNA, thereby bypassing the lesion and suppressing the mutagenic effect of UV-induced DNA damage. This polymerase is thought to be involved in hypermutation during immunoglobulin class switch recombination. Mutations in this gene result in XPV, a variant type of xeroderma pigmentosum. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130066	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acetyltransferase family, and is a rate-limiting enzyme in the catabolic pathway of polyamine metabolism. It catalyzes the acetylation of spermidine and spermine, and is involved in the regulation of the intracellular concentration of polyamines and their transport out of cells. Defects in this gene are associated with keratosis follicularis spinulosa decalvans (KFSD). Alternatively spliced transcripts have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000188257	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the phospholipase A2 family (PLA2). PLA2s constitute a diverse family of enzymes with respect to sequence, function, localization, and divalent cation requirements. This gene product belongs to group II, which contains secreted form of PLA2, an extracellular enzyme that has a low molecular mass and requires calcium ions for catalysis. It catalyzes the hydrolysis of the sn-2 fatty acid acyl ester bond of phosphoglycerides, releasing free fatty acids and lysophospholipids, and thought to participate in the regulation of the phospholipid metabolism in biomembranes. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants with different 5' UTRs have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000165591	 This gene encodes a fatty acid amide hydrolase that shares a conserved protein motif with the amidase signature family of enzymes. The encoded enzyme is able to catalyze the hydrolysis of a broad range of bioactive lipids, including those from the three main classes of fatty acid amides; N-acylethanolamines, fatty acid primary amides and N-acyl amino acids. This enzyme has a preference for monounsaturated acyl chains as a substrate.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000155966	 This gene encodes a putative transcriptional activator that is a member of the AF4\FMR2 gene family. This gene is associated with the folate-sensitive fragile X E locus on chromosome X. A repeat polymorphism in the fragile X E locus results in silencing of this gene causing Fragile X E syndrome. Fragile X E syndrome is a form of nonsyndromic X-linked mental retardation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000177542	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial glutamate carrier. Mutations in this gene are associated with early infantile epileptic encephalopathy. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000147403	 Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of four RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 60S subunit. The protein belongs to the L10E family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. In vitro studies have shown that the chicken protein can bind to c-Jun and can repress c-Jun-mediated transcriptional activation, but these activities have not been demonstrated in vivo. This gene was initially identified as a candidate for a Wilms tumor suppressor gene, but later studies determined that this gene is not involved in the suppression of Wilms tumor. This gene has been referred to as 'laminin receptor homolog' because a chimeric transcript consisting of sequence from this gene and sequence from the laminin receptor gene was isolated; however, it is not believed that this gene encodes a laminin receptor. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. This gene also uses multiple polyA signals, with the 3'-most polyA signal overlapping the deoxyribonuclease I-like 1 gene on the opposite strand. This gene is co-transcribed with the small nucleolar RNA gene U70, which is located in its fifth intron. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000236126	 This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000230594	 This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000140090	 This gene encodes a member of the potassium-dependent sodium/calcium exchanger protein family. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000242362	 This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000186335	 This gene encodes a pH-dependent proton-coupled amino acid transporter that belongs to the amino acid auxin permease 1 protein family. The encoded protein primarily transports small amino acids such as glycine, alanine and proline. Mutations in this gene are associated with iminoglycinuria and hyperglycinuria. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000174705	 This gene encodes an adapter protein that is characterized by a PX domain and four Src homology 3 domains. The encoded protein is required for podosome formation and is involved in cell adhesion and migration of numerous cell types. Mutations in this gene are the cause of Frank-ter Haar syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000007237	 Growth arrest-specific 7 is expressed primarily in terminally differentiated brain cells and predominantly in mature cerebellar Purkinje neurons. GAS7 plays a putative role in neuronal development. Several transcript variants encoding proteins which vary in the N-terminus have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167767	 Keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into epithelial keratins and hair keratins. This gene's expression profile shows that it encodes a type II epithelial keratin, although structurally the encoded protein is more like a type II hair keratin. This protein is involved in cell differentiation, localizing near desmosomal plaques in earlier stages of differentiation but then dispersing throughout the cytoplasm in terminally differentiating cells. The type II keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q13. Two transcript variants encoding two different fully functional isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000102125	 This gene encodes a protein that is expressed at high levels in cardiac and skeletal muscle. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a number of clinical disorders including Barth syndrome, dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), hypertrophic DCM, endocardial fibroelastosis, and left ventricular noncompaction (LVNC). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. A long form and a short form of each of these isoforms is produced; the short form lacks a hydrophobic leader sequence and may exist as a cytoplasmic protein rather than being membrane-bound. Other alternatively spliced transcripts have been described but the full-length nature of all these transcripts is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000185640	 Keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into epithelial keratins and hair keratins. This gene encodes an epithelial keratin that is expressed in skeletal muscle, skin and scalp. The type II keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q13.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000189182	 Keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into epithelial keratins and hair keratins. This gene encodes an epithelial keratin that is expressed in the skin and eccrine sweat glands. The type II keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q13.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000112039	 The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2). The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementation group E. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109501	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein, which is located primarily in the endoplasmic reticulum and ubiquitously expressed with highest levels in brain, pancreas, heart, and insulinoma beta-cell lines. Mutations in this gene are associated with Wolfram syndrome, also called DIDMOAD (Diabetes Insipidus, Diabetes Mellitus, Optic Atrophy, and Deafness), an autosomal recessive disorder. The disease affects the brain and central nervous system. Mutations in this gene can also cause autosomal dominant deafness 6 (DFNA6), also known as DFNA14 or DFNA38. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000075415	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the transport of phosphate into the mitochondrial matrix, either by proton cotransport or in exchange for hydroxyl ions. The protein contains three related segments arranged in tandem which are related to those found in other characterized members of the mitochondrial carrier family. Both the N-terminal and C-terminal regions of this protein protrude toward the cytosol. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been isolated. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000107165	 This gene encodes a melanosomal enzyme that belongs to the tyrosinase family and plays an important role in the melanin biosynthetic pathway. Defects in this gene are the cause of rufous oculocutaneous albinism and oculocutaneous albinism type III. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000187741	 The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2). The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementation group A. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Mutations in this gene are the most common cause of Fanconi anemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000158169	 The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2). The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementation group C. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171657	 The protein encoded by this gene is an orphan G protein-coupled receptor of unknown function. The encoded protein is a member of a family of proteins that contain seven transmembrane domains and transduce extracellular signals through heterotrimeric G proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000189030	 Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) tumor suppressor protein is a component of an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that selectively ubiquitinates the alpha subunit of the hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) transcription factor for proteasome-mediated degradation. Inactivation of VHL causes VHL disease and sporadic kidney cancer. This gene encodes a VHL homolog that lacks one of two key domains necessary for VHL function. This gene may contribute to the regulation of oxygen homeostasis and neovascularization during placenta development. This gene is intronless, and can also be interpreted as a retrotransposed pseudogene of the VHL locus located on chromosome 3. However, the protein is represented in this RefSeq due to evidence in PMID:14757845 that strongly suggests it is translated. The same publication also indicates that this protein binds HIF alpha but fails to recruit the E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, and it therefore functions as a dominant-negative VHL protein and a protector of HIF alpha. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000186340	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the thrombospondin family. It is a disulfide-linked homotrimeric glycoprotein that mediates cell-to-cell and cell-to-matrix interactions. This protein has been shown to function as a potent inhibitor of tumor growth and angiogenesis. Studies of the mouse counterpart suggest that this protein may modulate the cell surface properties of mesenchymal cells and be involved in cell adhesion and migration. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167548	 The protein encoded by this gene is a histone methyltransferase that methylates the Lys-4 position of histone H3. The encoded protein is part of a large protein complex called ASCOM, which has been shown to be a transcriptional regulator of the beta-globin and estrogen receptor genes. Mutations in this gene have been shown to be a cause of Kabuki syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000006756	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the sulfatase family. Sulfatases are essential for the correct composition of bone and cartilage matrix. The encoded protein is postranslationally glycosylated and localized to the lysosome. This gene is located within a cluster of similar arylsulfatase genes on chromosome X. A related pseudogene has been identified in the pseudoautosomal region of chromosome Y. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000080293	 The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled receptor and belongs to the glucagon-VIP-secretin receptor family. It binds secretin which is the most potent regulator of pancreatic bicarbonate, electrolyte and volume secretion. Secretin and its receptor are suggested to be involved in pancreatic cancer and autism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000155962	 Chloride channels are a diverse group of proteins that regulate fundamental cellular processes including stabilization of cell membrane potential, transepithelial transport, maintenance of intracellular pH, and regulation of cell volume. Chloride intracellular channel 2 is a member of the p64 family; the protein is detected in fetal liver and adult skeletal muscle tissue.  This gene maps to the candidate region on chromosome X for incontinentia pigmenti. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124193	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in mRNA splicing and may play a role in the determination of alternative splicing. The encoded nuclear protein belongs to the splicing factor SR family and has been shown to bind with and modulate another member of the family, SFRS12. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. In addition, two pseudogenes, one on chromosome 17 and the other on the X chromosome, have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000167815	 This gene encodes a member of the peroxiredoxin family of antioxidant enzymes, which reduce hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides. The encoded protein plays an antioxidant protective role in cells, and it may contribute to the antiviral activity of CD8(+) T-cells. The crystal structure of this protein has been resolved to 2.7 angstroms. This protein prevents hemolytic anemia from oxidative stress by stabilizing hemoglobin, thus making this gene a therapeutic target for patients with hemolytic anemia. This protein may have a proliferative effect and play a role in cancer development or progression. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 5, 6, 10 and 13. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000125398	 The protein encoded by this gene recognizes the sequence CCTTGAG along with other members of the HMG-box class DNA-binding proteins. It acts during chondrocyte differentiation and, with steroidogenic factor 1, regulates transcription of the anti-Muellerian hormone (AMH) gene. Deficiencies lead to the skeletal malformation syndrome campomelic dysplasia, frequently with sex reversal. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104723	 This gene is a candidate tumor suppressor gene. It is located within a homozygously deleted region of a metastatic prostate cancer. The gene is expressed in most nonlymphoid human tissues including prostate, lung, liver, and colon. Expression was also detected in many epithelial tumor cell lines. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178209	 Plectin is a prominent member of an important family of structurally and in part functionally related proteins, termed plakins or cytolinkers, that are capable of interlinking different elements of the cytoskeleton. Plakins, with their multi-domain structure and enormous size, not only play crucial roles in maintaining cell and tissue integrity and orchestrating dynamic changes in cytoarchitecture and cell shape, but also serve as scaffolding platforms for the assembly, positioning, and regulation of signaling complexes (reviewed in PMID: 9701547, 11854008, and 17499243). Plectin is expressed as several protein isoforms in a wide range of cell types and tissues from a single gene located on chromosome 8 in humans (PMID: 8633055, 8698233). Until 2010, this locus was named plectin 1 (symbol PLEC1 in human; Plec1 in mouse and rat) and the gene product had been referred to as 'hemidesmosomal protein 1' or 'plectin 1, intermediate filament binding 500kDa'. These names were superseded by plectin. The plectin gene locus in mouse on chromosome 15 has been analyzed in detail (PMID: 10556294, 14559777), revealing a genomic exon-intron organization with well over 40 exons spanning over 62 kb and an unusual 5' transcript complexity of plectin isoforms. Eleven exons (1-1j) have been identified that alternatively splice directly into a common exon 2 which is the first exon to encode plectin's highly conserved actin binding domain (ABD). Three additional exons (-1, 0a, and 0) splice into an alternative first coding exon (1c), and two additional exons (2alpha and 3alpha) are optionally spliced within the exons encoding the acting binding domain (exons 2-8). Analysis of the human locus has identified eight of the eleven alternative 5' exons found in mouse and rat (PMID: 14672974); exons 1i, 1j and 1h have not been confirmed in human. Furthermore, isoforms lacking the central rod domain encoded by exon 31 have been detected in mouse (PMID:10556294), rat (PMID: 9177781), and human (PMID: 11441066, 10780662, 20052759). The short alternative amino-terminal sequences encoded by the different first exons direct the targeting of the various isoforms to distinct subcellular locations (PMID: 14559777). As the expression of specific plectin isoforms was found to be dependent on cell type (tissue) and stage of development (PMID: 10556294, 12542521, 17389230) it appears that each cell type (tissue) contains a unique set (proportion and composition) of plectin isoforms, as if custom-made for specific requirements of the particular cells. Concordantly, individual isoforms were found to carry out distinct and specific functions (PMID: 14559777, 12542521, 18541706). In 1996, a number of groups reported that patients suffering from epidermolysis bullosa simplex with muscular dystrophy (EBS-MD) lacked plectin expression in skin and muscle tissues due to defects in the plectin gene (PMID: 8698233, 8941634, 8636409, 8894687, 8696340). Two other subtypes of plectin-related EBS have been described: EBS-pyloric atresia (PA) and EBS-Ogna. For reviews of plectin-related diseases see PMID: 15810881, 19945614. Mutations in the plectin gene related to human diseases should be named based on the position in NM_000445 (variant 1, isoform 1c), unless the mutation is located within one of the other alternative first exons, in which case the position in the respective Reference Sequence should be used. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011].  Publication Note:  This RefSeq record includes a subset of the publications that are available for this gene. Please see the Gene record to access additional publications. 
ENSG00000198176	 This gene encodes a member of a family of transcription factors that heterodimerize with E2F proteins to enhance their DNA-binding activity and promote transcription from E2F target genes. The encoded protein functions as part of this complex to control the transcriptional activity of numerous genes involved in cell cycle progression from G1 to S phase. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 1, 15, and X.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000135457	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that binds the alpha-globin promoter and activates transcription of the alpha-globin gene. The encoded protein regulates erythroid gene expression, plays a role in the transcriptional switch of globin gene promoters, and it activates many other cellular and viral gene promoters. The gene product interacts with certain inflammatory response factors, and polymorphisms of this gene may be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSGR0000182378	 This gene is the most terminal protein-coding gene in the pseudoautosomal (PAR) region on chromosomes X and Y. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000205138	 The succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) complex (or complex II) of the mitochondrial respiratory chain is composed of 4 individual subunits. The protein encoded by this gene resides in the mitochondria, and is essential for SDH assembly, but does not physically associate with the complex in vivo. Mutations in this gene are associated with SDH-defective infantile leukoencephalopathy (mitochondrial complex II deficiency).[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000185559	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein containing six epidermal growth factor repeats. The protein is involved in the differentiation of several cell types, including adipocytes; it is also thought to be a tumor suppressor. It is one of several imprinted genes located in a region of on chr 14q32. Certain mutations in this imprinted region can cause phenotypes similar to maternal and paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 14 (UPD14). This gene is expressed from the paternal allele. A polymorphism within this gene has been associated with child and adolescent obesity. The mode of inheritance for this polymorphism is polar overdominance; this non-Mendelian inheritance pattern was first described in sheep with the callipyge phenotype, which is characterized by muscle hypertrophy and decreased fat mass. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000087842	 This gene encodes a member of the cupin superfamily. The encoded protein is an Fe(II)-containing nuclear protein expressed in all tissues of the body and concentrated within dot-like subnuclear structures. Interactions with nuclear factor I/CCAAT box transcription factor as well as B cell lymphoma 3-encoded oncoprotein suggest the encoded protein may act as a transcriptional cofactor and be involved in the regulation of DNA transcription and replication. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000158104	 The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme in the catabolic pathway of tyrosine. The encoded protein catalyzes the conversion of 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate to homogentisate. Defects in this gene are a cause of tyrosinemia type 3 (TYRO3) and hawkinsinuria (HAWK). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000102096	 This gene encodes a protooncogene that acts as a serine/threonine protein kinase. Studies determined the encoded protein functions to prevent apoptosis and to promote cell survival.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000068400	 This gene encodes a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for the Ras family of small G proteins (RasGEF). In brain studies, the encoded protein was found with the GRIP/AMPA receptor complex. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described that encode different protein isoforms; however, the full-length nature and biological validity of all of these variants have not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000086758	 This gene encodes a member of the HECT E3 ubiquitin ligase family. The HECT domain lies in the C-terminus and contains the active-site cysteine which forms an intermediate ubiquitin-thioester bond. E3 family members are divided into three subfamilies based on their protein-protein interaction domains; this gene encodes a member of the SI(ngle)-HECT E3 subfamily. In lung, breast, and colorectal carcinomas, this gene is highly expressed. Mutations in this gene has been found in 3 unrelated families with X-linked syndromic mental retardation, Turner type. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000149970	 This gene encodes a multidomain protein that functions as a scaffold protein to mediate the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways downstream from Ras. This gene product is induced by vitamin D and inhibits apoptosis in certain cancer cells. It may also play a role in ternary complex assembly of synaptic proteins at the postsynaptic membrane and coupling of signal transduction to membrane/cytoskeletal remodeling. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000089472	 The protein encoded by this gene is similar to an iron transport protein found in mouse. The mouse protein is similar to ceruloplasmin, a serum multi-copper ferroxidase, and is thought to be a membrane-bound protein responsible for transport of dietary iron from epithelial cells of the intestinal lumen into the circulatory system. In mouse, defects in this gene can lead to severe microcytic anemia. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000081181	  Arginase catalyzes the hydrolysis of arginine to ornithine and urea.  At least two isoforms of mammalian arginase exists (types I and II) which differ in their tissue distribution, subcellular localization, immunologic crossreactivity and physiologic function.  The type II isoform encoded by this gene, is located in the mitochondria and expressed in extra-hepatic tissues, especially kidney.  The physiologic role of this isoform is poorly understood; it is thought to play a role in nitric oxide and polyamine metabolism.  Transcript variants of the type II gene resulting from the use of alternative polyadenylation sites have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116882	 This gene is one of three related genes that have 2-hydroxyacid oxidase activity yet differ in encoded protein amino acid sequence, tissue expression and substrate preference. Subcellular location of the encoded protein is the peroxisome. Specifically, this gene is expressed predominantly in liver and kidney and has the highest activity toward the substrate 2-hydroxypalmitate. Two alternatively spliced variants encoding the same isoform have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115827	 This gene encodes a nuclear transmembrane protein that associates with cullin 4A/damaged DNA binding protein 1 ubiquitin ligase complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with Woodhouse-Sakati syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000011143	 The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the basal body and is required for formation of the primary cilium in ciliated epithelial cells. Mutations in this gene result in Meckel syndrome type 1 and in Bardet-Biedl syndrome type 13. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000164494	 The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that synthesizes the prenyl side-chain of coenzyme Q, or ubiquinone, one of the key elements in the respiratory chain. The gene product catalyzes the formation of all trans-polyprenyl pyrophosphates from isopentyl diphosphate in the assembly of polyisoprenoid side chains, the first step in coenzyme Q biosynthesis. Defects in this gene are a cause of coenzyme Q10 deficiency.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000048342	 This gene encodes a coiled-coil and calcium binding domain protein that appears to play a critical role in cilia formation. Mutations in this gene cause Meckel syndrome type 6, as well as Joubert syndrome type 9. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000009765	 This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the oxidative NADPH-dependent deiodination of mono- and diiodotyrosine, which are the halogenated byproducts of thyroid hormone production. The N-terminus of the protein functions as a membrane anchor. Mutations in this gene cause congenital hypothyroidism due to dyshormonogenesis type 4, which is also referred to as deiodinase deficiency, or iodotyrosine dehalogenase deficiency, or thyroid hormonogenesis type 4. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000055957	 The protein encoded by this gene is the heavy chain of a serine protease inhibitor that may serve to carry hyaluronan in plasma. This gene is part of a cluster of similar genes on chromosome 3. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000116016	 This gene encodes a transcription factor involved in the induction of genes regulated by oxygen, which is induced as oxygen levels fall. The encoded protein contains a basic-helix-loop-helix domain protein dimerization domain as well as a domain found in proteins in signal transduction pathways which respond to oxygen levels. Mutations in this gene are associated with erythrocytosis familial type 4. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000100225	 This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of the ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Fbxs class and it may play a role in regulation of hematopoiesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been identified with the full-length natures of only some variants being determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000087274	 Adducins are a family of cytoskeleton proteins encoded by three genes (alpha, beta, gamma). Adducin is a heterodimeric protein that consists of related subunits, which are produced from distinct genes but share a similar structure. Alpha- and beta-adducin include a protease-resistant N-terminal region and a protease-sensitive, hydrophilic C-terminal region. Alpha- and gamma-adducins are ubiquitously expressed. In contrast, beta-adducin is expressed at high levels in brain and hematopoietic tissues. Adducin binds with high affinity to Ca(2+)/calmodulin and is a substrate for protein kinases A and C. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants encoding distinct isoforms; however, not all variants have been fully described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143727	 The product of this gene belongs to the phosphotyrosine protein phosphatase family of proteins. It functions as an acid phosphatase and a protein tyrosine phosphatase by hydrolyzing protein tyrosine phosphate to protein tyrosine and orthophosphate. This enzyme also hydrolyzes orthophosphoric monoesters to alcohol and orthophosphate. This gene is genetically polymorphic, and three common alleles segregating at the corresponding locus give rise to six phenotypes. Each allele appears to encode at least two electrophoretically different isozymes, Bf and Bs, which are produced in allele-specific ratios. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000170835	 The protein encoded by this gene is a glycoprotein secreted from the pancreas into the digestive tract and from the lactating mammary gland into human milk. The physiological role of this protein is in cholesterol and lipid-soluble vitamin ester hydrolysis and absorption. This encoded protein promotes large chylomicron production in the intestine. Also its presence in plasma suggests its interactions with cholesterol and oxidized lipoproteins to modulate the progression of atherosclerosis. In pancreatic tumoral cells, this encoded protein is thought to be sequestrated within the Golgi compartment and is probably not secreted. This gene contains a variable number of tandem repeat (VNTR) polymorphism in the coding region that may influence the function of the encoded protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000082458	 This gene encodes a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase protein family. The encoded protein may play a role in clustering of NMDA receptors at excitatory synapses. It may also negatively regulate cell proliferation through interaction with the C-terminal region of the adenomatosis polyposis coli tumor suppressor protein. Mutations in this gene have been associated with X-linked mental retardation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000101811	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein with an RRM (RNA recognition motif) domain. The protein is a member of the cleavage stimulation factor (CSTF) complex that is involved in the 3' end cleavage and polyadenylation of pre-mRNAs. Specifically, this protein binds GU-rich elements within the 3'-untranslated region of mRNAs. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125931	 This gene encodes a member of the CREB-binding protein/p300-interacting transactivator with Asp/Glu-rich C-terminal domain (CITED) family of proteins. The encoded protein, also known as melanocyte-specific gene 1, may function as a transcriptional coactivator and may play a role in pigmentation of melanocytes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000126947	 This gene encodes a member of the ALEX family of proteins and may play a role in tumor suppression. The encoded protein contains a potential N-terminal transmembrane domain and two Armadillo (arm) repeats. Other proteins containing the arm repeat are involved in development, maintenance of tissue integrity, and tumorigenesis. This gene is closely localized with other family members, including ALEX2 and ALEX3, on the X chromosome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171714	 This gene encodes a member of the anoctamin family of transmembrane proteins. The encoded protein is likely a calcium activated chloride channel. Mutations in this gene have been associated with gnathodiaphyseal dysplasia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000103489	 This locus encodes a xylosyltransferase enzyme. The encoded protein catalyzes transfer of UDP-xylose to serine residues of an acceptor protein substrate. This transfer reaction is necessary for biosynthesis of glycosaminoglycan chains. Mutations in this gene have been associated with increased severity of pseudoxanthoma elasticum.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000151498	 This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family of enzymes that catalyze the dehydrogenation of acyl-CoA derivatives in the metabolism of fatty acids or branch chained amino acids. The encoded protein is a mitochondrial enzyme that functions in catabolism of the branched-chain amino acid valine. Defects in this gene are the cause of isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000167460	 This gene encodes a member of the tropomyosin family of actin-binding proteins involved in the contractile system of striated and smooth muscles and the cytoskeleton of non-muscle cells. Tropomyosins are dimers of coiled-coil proteins that polymerize end-to-end along the major groove in most actin filaments. They provide stability to the filaments and regulate access of other actin-binding proteins. In muscle cells, they regulate muscle contraction by controlling the binding of myosin heads to the actin filament. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000121743	 The protein encoded by this gene is a connexin and is a component of lens fiber gap junctions. Defects in this gene are a cause of zonular pulverulent cataract type 3 (CZP3). [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000107831	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities, and are involved in a variety of biological processes, including embryonic development, cell growth, morphogenesis, tissue repair, tumor growth and invasion. This protein is known to be a factor that supports androgen and anchorage independent growth of mammary tumor cells. Overexpression of this gene has been shown to increase tumor growth and angiogensis. The adult expression of this gene is restricted to testes and ovaries. Temporal and spatial pattern of this gene expression suggests its function as an embryonic epithelial factor. Studies of the mouse and chick homologs revealed roles in midbrain and limb development, organogenesis, embryo gastrulation and left-right axis determination. The alternative splicing of this gene results in four transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000117593	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family. It is a mitochondrial enzyme that specifically aminoacylates aspartyl-tRNA. Mutations in this gene are associated with leukoencephalopathy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and lactate elevation (LBSL). [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000143199	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a distinct class of mammalian adenylyl cyclase that is soluble and insensitive to G protein or forskolin regulation. It is thought to function as a general bicarbonate sensor throughout the body. It may also play an important role in the generation of cAMP in spermatozoa, implying possible roles in sperm maturation through the epididymis, capacitation, hypermotility, and/or the acrosome reaction. Genetic variations in this gene are associated with absorptive hypercalciuria type 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000125255	 This gene encodes a sodium/bile acid cotransporter. This transporter is the primary mechanism for uptake of intestinal bile acids by apical cells in the distal ileum. Bile acids are the catabolic product of cholesterol metabolism, so this protein is also critical for cholesterol homeostasis. Mutations in this gene cause primary bile acid malabsorption (PBAM); muatations in this gene may also be associated with other diseases of the liver and intestines, such as familial hypertriglyceridemia (FHTG). [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000188404	 This gene encodes a cell surface adhesion molecule that belongs to a family of adhesion/homing receptors. The encoded protein contains a C-type lectin-like domain, a calcium-binding epidermal growth factor-like domain, and two short complement-like repeats. The gene product is required for binding and subsequent rolling of leucocytes on endothelial cells, facilitating their migration into secondary lymphoid organs and inflammation sites. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with various diseases including immunoglobulin A nephropathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000171302	 This protein encoded by this gene belongs to the apyrase family. It functions as a calcium-dependent nucleotidase with a preference for UDP. Mutations in this gene are associated with Desbuquois dysplasia with hand anomalies. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000167210	 This gene encodes a highly conserved protein consisting entirely of PLAT (polycystin/lipoxygenase/alpha-toxin) domains, thought to be involved in targeting proteins to the plasma membrane. Studies in mice show that this gene is expressed in the mechanosensory hair cells in the inner ear, and mutations in this gene lead to auditory defects, indicating that this gene is essential for normal hair cell function. Screening of human families segregating deafness identified a mutation in this gene which causes DFNB77, a progressive form of autosomal-recessive nonsyndromic hearing loss (ARNSHL). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000156170	 This gene encodes a protein that localizes to mitochondria and contains a predicted phytoene synthase domain. The encoded protein plays an important role in the assembly of complex I (NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase) of the mitochondrial respiratory chain through regulation of subunit ND1 biogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with complex I enzymatic deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000158023	 This protein encoded by this gene belongs to the WD repeat-containing family of proteins, which function in the formation of protein-protein complexes in a variety of biological pathways. This family member appears to function in the determination of mean platelet volume (MPV), and polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with variance in MPV. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000197085	 This gene is located within a region that has been associated with asthma susceptibility. The locus is considered non-protein-coding based on lack of protein homology and a lack of experimental support for an encoded protein. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000092439	 The protein encoded by this gene is both an ion channel and a serine/threonine protein kinase. The kinase activity is essential for the ion channel function, which serves to increase intracellular calcium levels and to help regulate magnesium ion homeostasis. Defects in this gene are a cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-parkinsonism/dementia complex of Guam.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000131771	 This gene encodes a bifunctional signal transduction molecule. Dopaminergic and glutamatergic receptor stimulation regulates its phosphorylation and function as a kinase or phosphatase inhibitor. As a target for dopamine, this gene may serve as a therapeutic target for neurologic and psychiatric disorders. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000115904	 This gene encodes a protein that is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for RAS proteins, membrane proteins that bind guanine nucleotides and participate in signal transduction pathways. GTP binding activates and GTP hydrolysis inactivates RAS proteins. The product of this gene may regulate RAS proteins by facilitating the exchange of GTP for GDP. Mutations in this gene are associated with gingival fibromatosis 1 and Noonan syndrome type 4. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000075413	 The protein encoded by this gene is activated by phosphorylation and in turn is involved in the phosphorylation of tau proteins MAP2 and MAP4. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000154118	 Junctional complexes between the plasma membrane and endoplasmic/sarcoplasmic reticulum are a common feature of all excitable cell types and mediate cross talk between cell surface and intracellular ion channels. The protein encoded by this gene is a component of junctional complexes and is composed of a C-terminal hydrophobic segment spanning the endoplasmic/sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane and a remaining cytoplasmic domain that shows specific affinity for the plasma membrane. CAG/CTG repeat expansions at the Huntington's disease (HD)-like 2 locus have been identified in this gene, which is a member of the junctophilin gene family. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]. 
ENSG00000185303	 This gene is one of several genes encoding pulmonary-surfactant associated proteins (SFTPA) located on chromosome 10. Mutations in this gene and a highly similar gene located nearby, which affect the highly conserved carbohydrate recognition domain, are associated with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. The current version of the assembly displays only a single centromeric SFTPA gene pair rather than the two gene pairs shown in the previous assembly which were thought to have resulted from a duplication. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000128322	 The preB cell receptor is found on the surface of proB and preB cells, where it is involved in transduction of signals for cellular proliferation, differentiation from the proB cell to the preB cell stage, allelic exclusion at the Ig heavy chain gene locus, and promotion of Ig light chain gene rearrangements. The preB cell receptor is composed of a membrane-bound Ig mu heavy chain in association with a heterodimeric surrogate light chain. This gene encodes one of the surrogate light chain subunits and is a member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily. This gene does not undergo rearrangement. Mutations in this gene can result in B cell deficiency and agammaglobulinemia, an autosomal recessive disease in which few or no gamma globulins or antibodies are made. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168267	 This gene encodes a protein that is a component of the pancreas transcription factor 1 complex (PTF1) and is known to have a role in mammalian pancreatic development. The protein plays a role in determining whether cells allocated to the pancreatic buds continue towards pancreatic organogenesis or revert back to duodenal fates. The protein is thought to be involved in the maintenance of exocrine pancreas-specific gene expression including elastase 1 and amylase. Mutations in this gene cause cerebellar agenesis and loss of expression is seen in ductal type pancreas cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102805	 This gene is one of eight which have been associated with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL). Also referred to as Batten disease, NCL comprises a class of autosomal recessive, neurodegenerative disorders affecting children. The genes responsible likely encode proteins involved in the degradation of post-translationally modified proteins in lysosomes. The primary defect in NCL disorders is thought to be associated with lysosomal storage function.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000175785	 The product of this gene functions to organize acetylcholinesterase (AChE) into tetramers, and to anchor AChE at neural cell membranes. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000173077	 The function of this gene is not known. This gene is located in a region commonly deleted in esophageal squamous cell carcinomas.  Gene expression is reduced or absent in these carcinomas and thus this is a candidate tumor suppressor gene for esophageal squamous cell carcinomas. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163357	 This gene encodes a protein with a domain similar to one found in dendritic cells (PMID:11169400) which play a key role in antigen processing and display for immune responses. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000117154	 This gene encodes a protein which has two immunoglobulin (Ig) domains and is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. Proteins in this superfamily are usually found on or in cell membranes and act as receptors in immune response pathways. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000197969	 The protein encoded by this gene may control steps in the cycling of proteins through the trans-Golgi network to endosomes, lysosomes and the plasma membrane. Mutations in this gene cause the autosomal recessive disorder, chorea-acanthocytosis. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000185247	 This gene is a member of the MAGEA gene family. The members of this family encode proteins with 50 to 80% sequence identity to each other. The promoters and first exons of the MAGEA genes show considerable variability, suggesting that the existence of this gene family enables the same function to be expressed under different transcriptional controls. The MAGEA genes are clustered at chromosomal location Xq28. They have been implicated in some hereditary disorders, such as dyskeratosis congenita. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116741	 Regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) family members are regulatory molecules that act as GTPase activating proteins (GAPs) for G alpha subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins. RGS proteins are able to deactivate G protein subunits of the Gi alpha, Go alpha and Gq alpha subtypes. They drive G proteins into their inactive GDP-bound forms. Regulator of G protein signaling 2 belongs to this family. The protein acts as a mediator of myeloid differentiation and may play a role in leukemogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000136068	 This gene encodes a member of the filamin family. The encoded protein interacts with glycoprotein Ib alpha as part of the process to repair vascular injuries. The platelet glycoprotein Ib complex includes glycoprotein Ib alpha, and it binds the actin cytoskeleton. Mutations in this gene have been found in several conditions: atelosteogenesis type 1 and type 3; boomerang dysplasia; autosomal dominant Larsen syndrome; and spondylocarpotarsal synostosis syndrome. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000067445	 This gene encodes a membrane protein that mediates cell adhesion between trophoblastic cells and the epithelial cells of the endometrium. The encoded protein participates in cell signalling during embryo implantation, and may also be involved in cancer formation. This gene is located near several other closely related genes on chromosome X. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000234414	 This gene encodes a protein containing an RNA-binding motif in the N-terminus and four SRGY (serine, arginine, glycine, tyrosine) boxes in the C-terminus. Multiple copies of this gene are found in the AZFb azoospermia factor region of chromosome Y and the encoded protein is thought to be involved in spermatogenesis. Most copies of this locus are pseudogenes, although six highly similar copies have full-length ORFs and are considered functional. Four functional copies of this gene are found within inverted repeat IR2; two functional copies of this gene are found in palindrome P3, along with two copies of PTPN13-like, Y-linked. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114054	 The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the propionyl-CoA carboxylase (PCC) enzyme, which is involved in the catabolism of propionyl-CoA. PCC is a mitochondrial enzyme that probably acts as a dodecamer of six alpha subunits and six beta subunits. This gene encodes the beta subunit of PCC. Defects in this gene are a cause of propionic acidemia type II (PA-2). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000160200	 The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homotetramer to catalyze the conversion of homocysteine to cystathionine, the first step in the transsulfuration pathway. The encoded protein is allosterically activated by adenosyl-methionine and uses pyridoxal phosphate as a cofactor. Defects in this gene can cause cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency (CBSD), which can lead to homocystinuria. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000173198	 The cysteinyl leukotrienes LTC4, LTD4, and LTE4 are important mediators of human bronchial asthma. Pharmacologic studies have determined that cysteinyl leukotrienes activate at least 2 receptors, the protein encoded by this gene and CYSLTR2. This encoded receptor is a member of the superfamily of G protein-coupled receptors. Activation of this receptor by LTD4 results in contraction and proliferation of smooth muscle, oedema, eosinophil migration and damage to the mucus layer in the lung. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160185	 This gene encodes one of two family members belonging to the T-cell ubiquitin ligand (TULA) family. Both family members can negatively regulate T-cell signaling. This family member can facilitate growth factor withdrawal-induced apoptosis in T cells, which may occur via its interaction with AIF, an apoptosis-inducing factor. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000133121	 This gene encodes a protein which contains an N-terminal sterile alpha motif (SAM) for protein-protein interactions, followed by an ATP/GTP-binding motif, a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) domain, and a C-terminal STAR-related lipid transfer (START) domain. It may be involved in regulation of cytoskeletal reorganization, cell proliferation, and cell motility, and acts as a tumor suppressor in hepatoma cells. The gene is located in a region of chromosome 13 that is associated with loss of heterozygosity in hepatocellular carcinomas. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000198010	 The product of this gene is a membrane-associated guanylate kinase. The encoded protein may play a role in synapse organization and signalling in neuronal cells. This gene is biallelically expressed in the brain, however, only the paternal allele is expressed in the testis (PMID:18055845). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000118094	 This gene encodes an enzyme that hydrolyses trehalose, a disaccharide formed from two glucose molecules found mainly in fungi, plants, and insects. A partial duplication of this gene is located adjacent to this locus on chromosome 11. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196296	 This gene encodes one of the SERCA Ca(2+)-ATPases, which are intracellular pumps located in the sarcoplasmic or endoplasmic reticula of muscle cells. This enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the translocation of calcium from the cytosol to the sarcoplasmic reticulum lumen, and is involved in muscular excitation and contraction. Mutations in this gene cause some autosomal recessive forms of Brody disease, characterized by increasing impairment of muscular relaxation during exercise. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000092345	 The DAZ (Deleted in AZoospermia) gene family encodes potential RNA binding proteins that are expressed in prenatal and postnatal germ cells of males and females. The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the nucleus and cytoplasm of fetal germ cells and to the cytoplasm of developing oocytes. In the testis, this protein is localized to the nucleus of spermatogonia but relocates to the cytoplasm during meiosis where it persists in spermatids and spermatozoa. Transposition and amplification of this autosomal gene during primate evolution gave rise to the DAZ gene cluster on the Y chromosome. Mutations in this gene have been linked to severe spermatogenic failure and infertility in males. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000169684	 The protein encoded by this gene is a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit and a member of a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that mediate fast signal transmission at synapses. These receptors are thought to be heteropentamers composed of separate but similar subunits. Defects in this gene have been linked to susceptibility to lung cancer type 2 (LNCR2).[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000183207	 This gene encodes the second human homologue of the bacterial RuvB gene. Bacterial RuvB protein is a DNA helicase essential for homologous recombination and DNA double-strand break repair. Functional analysis showed that this gene product has both ATPase and DNA helicase activities. This gene is physically linked to the CGB/LHB gene cluster on chromosome 19q13.3, and is very close (55 nt) to the LHB gene, in the opposite orientation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168067	  The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. Although this kinase is found in many tissues, its expression in lymphoid follicles is restricted to the cells of germinal centre, where it may participate in B-cell differentiation. This kinase can be activated by TNF-alpha, and has been shown to specifically activate MAP kinases. This kinase is also found to interact with TNF receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2), which is involved in the activation of MAP3K1/MEKK1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126895	 This gene encodes the vasopressin receptor, type 2, also known as the V2 receptor, which belongs to the seven-transmembrane-domain G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily, and couples to Gs thus stimulating adenylate cyclase. The subfamily that includes the V2 receptor, the V1a and V1b vasopressin receptors, the oxytocin receptor, and isotocin and mesotocin receptors in non-mammals, is well conserved, though several members signal via other G proteins. All bind similar cyclic nonapeptide hormones. The V2 receptor is expressed in the kidney tubule, predominantly in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting ducts, where its primary property is to respond to the pituitary hormone arginine vasopressin (AVP) by stimulating mechanisms that concentrate the urine and maintain water homeostasis in the organism. When the function of this gene is lost, the disease Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus (NDI) results. The V2 receptor is also expressed outside the kidney although its tissue localization is uncertain. When these 'extrarenal receptors' are stimulated by infusion of a V2 selective agonist (dDAVP), a variety of clotting factors are released into the bloodstream. The physiologic importance of this property is not known - its absence does not appear to be detrimental in NDI patients. The gene expression has also been described in fetal lung tissue and lung cancer associated with alternative splicing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171903	 This gene, CYP4F11, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19. Another member of this family, CYP4F2, is approximately 16 kb away. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000019186	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This mitochondrial protein initiates the degradation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, the physiologically active form of vitamin D3, by hydroxylation of the side chain. In regulating the level of vitamin D3, this enzyme plays a role in calcium homeostasis and the vitamin D endocrine system. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000225190	 The protein encoded by this gene is essential for bone resorption, and may play a critical role in vesicular transport in the osteoclast. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive osteopetrosis type 6 (OPTB6). Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000159899	 This gene encodes natriuretic peptide receptor B, one of two integral membrane receptors for natriuretic peptides. Both NPR1 and NPR2 contain five functional domains: an extracellular ligand-binding domain, a single membrane-spanning region, and intracellularly a protein kinase homology domain, a helical hinge region involved in oligomerization, and a carboxyl-terminal guanylyl cyclase catalytic domain. The protein is the primary receptor for C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP), which upon ligand binding exhibits greatly increased guanylyl cyclase activity. Mutations in this gene are the cause of acromesomelic dysplasia Maroteaux type. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000005961	 ITGA2B encodes integrin alpha chain 2b. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain. Alpha chain 2b undergoes post-translational cleavage to yield disulfide-linked light and heavy chains that join with beta 3 to form a fibronectin receptor expressed in platelets that plays a crucial role in coagulation. Mutations that interfere with this role result in thrombasthenia. In addition to adhesion, integrins are known to participate in cell-surface mediated signalling. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000154277	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the peptidase C12 family. This enzyme is a thiol protease that hydrolyzes a peptide bond at the C-terminal glycine of ubiquitin. This gene is specifically expressed in the neurons and in cells of the diffuse neuroendocrine system. Mutations in this gene may be associated with Parkinson disease.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000134184	 Cytosolic and membrane-bound forms of glutathione S-transferase are encoded by two distinct supergene families. At present, eight distinct classes of the soluble cytoplasmic mammalian glutathione S-transferases have been identified: alpha, kappa, mu, omega, pi, sigma, theta and zeta. This gene encodes a glutathione S-transferase that belongs to the mu class. The mu class of enzymes functions in the detoxification of electrophilic compounds, including carcinogens, therapeutic drugs, environmental toxins and products of oxidative stress, by conjugation with glutathione. The genes encoding the mu class of enzymes are organized in a gene cluster on chromosome 1p13.3 and are known to be highly polymorphic. These genetic variations can change an individual's susceptibility to carcinogens and toxins as well as affect the toxicity and efficacy of certain drugs. Null mutations of this class mu gene have been linked with an increase in a number of cancers, likely due to an increased susceptibility to environmental toxins and carcinogens. Multiple protein isoforms are encoded by transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198951	 NAGA encodes the lysosomal enzyme alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase, which cleaves alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminyl moieties from glycoconjugates. Mutations in NAGA have been identified as the cause of  Schindler disease types I and II (type II also known as Kanzaki disease). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000154309	 The pattern of cellular proliferation and differentiation that leads to normal development of embryonic structures often depends upon the localized production of secreted protein signals. Cells surrounding the source of a particular signal respond in a graded manner according to the effective concentration of the signal, and this response produces the pattern of cell types constituting the mature structure. A novel segment-polarity gene known as dispatched has been identified in Drosophila and its protein product is required for normal Hedgehog (Hh) signaling. This gene is one of two human homologs of Drosophila dispatched and, based on sequence identity to its mouse counterpart, the encoded protein may play an essential role in Hh patterning activities in the early embryo. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000087116	 This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The enzyme encoded by this gene excises the N-propeptide of type I, type II and type V procollagens. Mutations in this gene cause Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIIC, a recessively inherited connective-tissue disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000166347	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound cytochrome that reduces ferric hemoglobin (methemoglobin) to ferrous hemoglobin, which is required for stearyl-CoA-desaturase activity. Defects in this gene are a cause of type IV hereditary methemoglobinemia. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000124479	 This gene encodes a secreted protein with a cystein-knot motif that activates the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. The protein forms disulfide-linked oligomers in the extracellular matrix. Mutations in this gene result in Norrie disease and X-linked exudative vitreoretinopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000100336	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the apolipoprotein L family and may play a role in lipid exchange and transport throughout the body, as well as in reverse cholesterol transport from peripheral cells to the liver. Two transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. Only one of the isoforms appears to be a secreted protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163637	 This gene encodes a homolog of Drosophila prickle. The exact function of this gene is not known, however, studies in mice suggest that it may be involved in seizure prevention. Mutations in this gene are associated with progressive myoclonic epilepsy type 5. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000169271	 This gene encodes a muscle-specific small heat shock protein. A mutation in this gene is the cause of autosomal dominant distal hereditary motor neuropathy type 2C.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000198286	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family, a class of proteins that functions as molecular scaffolds for the assembly of multiprotein complexes at specialized regions of the plasma membrane. This protein is also a member of the CARD protein family, which is defined by carrying a characteristic caspase-associated recruitment domain (CARD). This protein has a domain structure similar to that of CARD14 protein. The CARD domains of both proteins have been shown to specifically interact with BCL10, a protein known to function as a positive regulator of cell apoptosis and NF-kappaB activation. When expressed in cells, this protein activated NF-kappaB and induced the phosphorylation of BCL10. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104903	 This gene represents a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor. The encoded protein may play roles in blood vessel maturation and hematopoeisis. A translocation between this locus and the T cell receptor beta locus (GeneID 6957) on chromosome 7 has been associated with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000069702	 This locus encodes the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta type III receptor. The encoded receptor is a membrane proteoglycan that often functions as a co-receptor with other TGF-beta receptor superfamily members. Ectodomain shedding produces soluble TGFBR3, which may inhibit TGFB signaling. Decreased expression of this receptor has been observed in various cancers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000172115	 This gene encodes a small heme protein that functions as a central component of the electron transport chain in mitochondria. The encoded protein associates with the inner membrane of the mitochondrion where it accepts electrons from cytochrome b and transfers them to the cytochrome oxidase complex. This protein is also involved in initiation of apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant nonsyndromic thrombocytopenia. Numerous processed pseudogenes of this gene are found throughout the human genome.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000143322	 This gene encodes a member of the Abelson family of nonreceptor tyrosine protein kinases. The protein is highly similar to the c-abl oncogene 1 protein, including the tyrosine kinase, SH2 and SH3 domains, and it plays a role in cytoskeletal rearrangements through its C-terminal F-actin- and microtubule-binding sequences. This gene is expressed in both normal and tumor cells, and is involved in translocation with the ets variant 6 gene in leukemia. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000119537	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the reduction of 3-ketodihydrosphingosine to dihydrosphingosine. The putative active site residues of the encoded protein are found on the cytosolic side of the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. A chromosomal rearrangement involving this gene is a cause of follicular lymphoma, also known as type II chronic lymphatic leukemia. The mutation of a conserved residue in the bovine ortholog causes spinal muscular atrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106692	 The protein encoded by this gene is a putative transmembrane protein that is localized to the cis-Golgi compartment, where it may be involved in the glycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan in skeletal muscle. The encoded protein is thought to be a glycosyltransferase and could play a role in brain development. Defects in this gene are a cause of Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD), Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS), limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2M (LGMD2M), and dilated cardiomyopathy type 1X (CMD1X). Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000100427	 The function of this gene product is unknown; however, homology to other proteins suggests that it may be an integral membrane transporter. Mutations in this gene have been associated with megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts, an autosomal recessive neurological disorder. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000122406	 Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 60S subunit. The protein belongs to the L18P family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. The protein binds 5S rRNA to form a stable complex called the 5S ribonucleoprotein particle (RNP), which is necessary for the transport of nonribosome-associated cytoplasmic 5S rRNA to the nucleolus for assembly into ribosomes. The protein interacts specifically with the beta subunit of casein kinase II. Variable expression of this gene in colorectal cancers compared to adjacent normal tissues has been observed, although no correlation between the level of expression and the severity of the disease has been found. This gene is co-transcribed with the small nucleolar RNA gene U21, which is located in its fifth intron. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000099769	 The protein encoded by this gene is a serum protein that binds insulin-like growth factors, increasing their half-life and their vascular localization. Production of the encoded protein, which contains twenty leucine-rich repeats, is stimulated by growth hormone. Defects in this gene are a cause of acid-labile subunit deficiency, which maifests itself in a delayed and slow puberty. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000159261	 Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and serving as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space. These junctions are comprised of sets of continuous networking strands in the outwardly facing cytoplasmic leaflet, with complementary grooves in the inwardly facing extracytoplasmic leaflet. The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the claudin family, is an integral membrane protein and a component of tight junction strands. The encoded protein also binds specifically to the WW domain of Yes-associated protein. Defects in this gene are the cause of an autosomal recessive form of nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness. It is also reported that four synonymous variants in this gene are associated with kidney stones and reduced bone mineral density. Several transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000170615	 This gene encodes a member of the SLC26A/SulP transporter family. The protein functions as a molecular motor in motile outer hair cells (OHCs) of the cochlea, inducing changes in cell length that act to amplify sound levels. The transmembrane protein is an incomplete anion transporter, and does not allow anions to cross the cell membrane but instead undergoes a conformational change in response to changes in intracellular Cl- levels that results in a change in cell length. The protein functions at microsecond rates, which is several orders of magnitude faster than conventional molecular motor proteins. Mutations in this gene are potential candidates for causing neurosensory deafness. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000081052	 This gene encodes one of the six subunits of type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes. This particular collagen IV subunit, however, is only found in a subset of basement membranes. Like the other members of the type IV collagen gene family, this gene is organized in a head-to-head conformation with another type IV collagen gene so that each gene pair shares a common promoter. Mutations in this gene are associated with type II autosomal recessive Alport syndrome (hereditary glomerulonephropathy) and with familial benign hematuria (thin basement membrane disease). Two transcripts, differing only in their transcription start sites, have been identified for this gene and, as is common for collagen genes, multiple polyadenylation sites are found in the 3' UTR. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131504	 This gene is a homolog of the Drosophila diaphanous gene, and has been linked to autosomal dominant, fully penetrant, nonsyndromic sensorineural progressive low-frequency hearing loss. Actin polymerization involves proteins known to interact with diaphanous protein in Drosophila and mouse. It has therefore been speculated that this gene may have a role in the regulation of actin polymerization in hair cells of the inner ear. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112319	 This gene encodes a member of the eyes absent (EYA) family of proteins. The encoded protein may act as a transcriptional activator through its protein phosphatase activity, and it may be important for eye development, and for continued function of the mature organ of Corti. Mutations in this gene are associated with postlingual, progressive, autosomal dominant hearing loss at the deafness, autosomal dominant nonsyndromic sensorineural 10 locus. Defects in this gene are also associated with dilated cardiomyopathy 1J. Three transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198682	 Sulfation is a common modification of endogenous (lipids, proteins, and carbohydrates) and exogenous (xenobiotics and drugs) compounds. In mammals, the sulfate source is 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate (PAPS), created from ATP and inorganic sulfate. Two different tissue isoforms encoded by different genes synthesize PAPS. This gene encodes one of the two PAPS synthetases. Defects in this gene cause the Pakistani type of spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186393	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin superfamily. This keratin protein is a type I keratin that is specific for the inner root sheath of the hair follicle. This gene exists in a cluster with other keratin genes on chromosome 17q21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000140105	 Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by their cognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids with nucleotide triplets contained in tRNAs, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are thought to be among the first proteins that appeared in evolution. Two forms of tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase exist, a cytoplasmic form, named WARS, and a mitochondrial form, named WARS2. Tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase (WARS) catalyzes the aminoacylation of tRNA(trp) with tryptophan and is induced by interferon. Tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase belongs to the class I tRNA synthetase family. Four transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000127824	 Microtubules of the eukaryotic cytoskeleton perform essential and diverse functions and are composed of a heterodimer of alpha and beta tubulin. The genes encoding these microtubule constituents are part of the tubulin superfamily, which is composed of six distinct families. Genes from the alpha, beta and gamma tubulin families are found in all eukaryotes. The alpha and beta tubulins represent the major components of microtubules, while gamma tubulin plays a critical role in the nucleation of microtubule assembly. There are multiple alpha and beta tubulin genes and they are highly conserved among and between species. This gene encodes an alpha tubulin that is a highly conserved homolog of a rat testis-specific alpha tubulin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147380	 This gene encodes for a light absorbing visual pigment of the opsin gene family. The encoded protein is called green cone photopigment or medium-wavelength sensitive opsin. Opsins are G-protein coupled receptors with seven transmembrane domains, an N-terminal extracellular domain, and a C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. The long-wavelength opsin gene and multiple copies of the medium-wavelength opsin gene are tandemly arrayed on the X chromosome and frequent unequal recombination and gene conversion may occur between these sequences. X chromosomes may have fusions of the medium- and long-wavelength opsin genes or may have more than one copy of these genes. Defects in this gene are the cause of deutanopic colorblindness. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000040531	 This gene encodes a seven-transmembrane domain protein that functions to transport cystine out of lysosomes. Its activity is driven by the H+ electrochemical gradient of the lysosomal membrane. Mutations in this gene cause cystinosis, a lysosomal storage disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000180660	 This gene is similar to the MAB-21 cell fate-determining gene found in C. elegans. It may be involved in eye and cerebellum development, and it has been proposed that expansion of a trinucleotide repeat region in the 5' UTR may play a role in a variety of psychiatric disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000124151	 The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear receptor coactivator that interacts with nuclear hormone receptors to enhance their transcriptional activator functions. The encoded protein has histone acetyltransferase activity and recruits p300/CBP-associated factor and CREB binding protein as part of a multisubunit coactivation complex. This protein is initially found in the cytoplasm but is translocated into the nucleus upon phosphorylation. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. In addition, a polymorphic repeat region is found in the C-terminus of the encoded protein. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000182923	 This gene encodes a protein with six coiled-coil domains. The protein is localized to the centrosome, a non-membraneous organelle that functions as the major microtubule-organizing center in animal cells. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134594	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the small GTPase superfamily, Rab family. It is GTP-binding protein and may be involved in vesicle transport. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102290	 This gene belongs to the protocadherin gene family, a subfamily of the cadherin superfamily. The encoded protein consists of an extracellular domain containing 7 cadherin repeats, a transmembrane domain and a cytoplasmic tail that differs from those of the classical cadherins. The gene is located in a major X/Y block of homology and its Y homolog, despite divergence leading to coding region changes, is the most closely related cadherin family member. The protein is thought to play a fundamental role in cell-cell recognition essential for the segmental development and function of the central nervous system. Transcripts arising from alternative splicing encode isoforms with variable cytoplasmic domains. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198918	 Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 60S subunit. The protein belongs to the S39E family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. In rat, the protein is the smallest, and one of the most basic, proteins of the ribosome. This gene is co-transcribed with the U69 small nucleolar RNA gene, which is located in its second intron. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000129654	 This gene encodes a member of the forkhead family of transcription factors. Similar genes in zebrafish and mouse have been shown to regulate the transcription of genes that control the production of motile cilia. The mouse ortholog also functions in the determination of left-right asymmetry. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with systemic lupus erythematosus and allergic rhinitis.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000063244	 U2 auxiliary factor (U2AF), comprised of a large and a small subunit, is a non-snRNP protein required for the binding of U2 snRNP to the pre-mRNA branch site. This gene encodes the U2AF large subunit which contains a sequence-specific RNA-binding region with 3 RNA recognition motifs and an Arg/Ser-rich domain necessary for splicing. The large subunit binds to the polypyrimidine tract of introns early during spliceosome assembly. Multiple transcript variants have been detected for this gene, but the full-length natures of only two have been determined to date. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000151617	 This gene encodes the receptor for endothelin-1, a peptide that plays a role in potent and long-lasting vasoconstriction. This receptor associates with guanine-nucleotide-binding (G) proteins, and this coupling activates a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Polymorphisms in this gene have been linked to migraine headache resistance. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000166415	 This gene encodes a protein with eight WD-40 repeats. Mutations in this gene have been associated with amelogenesis imperfecta hypomaturation type 2A3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000119121	 This gene is predominantly expressed in the kidney and colon, and encodes a protein containing an ion channel domain and a protein kinase domain. It is crucial for magnesium homeostasis, and plays an essential role in epithelial magnesium transport and in the active magnesium absorption in the gut and kidney. Mutations in this gene are associated with hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000022267	 This gene encodes a member of the four-and-a-half-LIM-only protein family. Family members contain two highly conserved, tandemly arranged, zinc finger domains with four highly conserved cysteines binding a zinc atom in each zinc finger. Expression of these family members occurs in a cell- and tissue-specific mode and these proteins are involved in many cellular processes. Mutations in this gene have been found in patients with Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy. Multiple alternately spliced transcript variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000165025	 This gene encodes a member of the family of non-receptor type Tyr protein kinases. This protein is widely expressed in hematopoietic cells and is involved in coupling activated immunoreceptors to downstream signaling events that mediate diverse cellular responses, including proliferation, differentiation, and phagocytosis. It is thought to be a modulator of epithelial cell growth and a potential tumour suppressor in human breast carcinomas. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000175065	 This gene encodes a member of the desmoglein subgroup of desmosomal cadherins. The encoded protein is a transmembrane component in desmosomes and may play a role in cell-cell adhesion in epithelial cells. Mutations in the gene are associated with localized autosomal recessive hypotrichosis and potentially in other skin disorders. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000198570	 This gene encodes a retinal protein that is associated with promyelocytic leukemia-gene product (PML) bodies in the nucleus. Mutations in this gene cause Leber congenital amaurosis type 12, a disease that results in retinal degeneration. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000169676	 This gene encodes the D5 subtype of the dopamine receptor. The D5 subtype is a G-protein coupled receptor which stimulates adenylyl cyclase. This receptor is expressed in neurons in the limbic regions of the brain. It has a 10-fold higher affinity for dopamine than the D1 subtype. Pseudogenes related to this gene reside on chromosomes 1 and 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000176692	 This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors which is characterized by a distinct DNA-binding forkhead domain.  The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, it may play a role in the development of mesenchymal tissues. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000258839	 This intronless gene encodes the receptor protein for melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH). The encoded protein, a seven pass transmembrane G protein coupled receptor, controls melanogenesis. Two types of melanin exist: red pheomelanin and black eumelanin. Gene mutations that lead to a loss in function are associated with increased pheomelanin production, which leads to lighter skin and hair color. Eumelanin is photoprotective but pheomelanin may contribute to UV-induced skin damage by generating free radicals upon UV radiation. Binding of MSH to its receptor activates the receptor and stimulates eumelanin synthesis. This receptor is a major determining factor in sun sensitivity and is a genetic risk factor for melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer. Over 30 variant alleles have been identified which correlate with skin and hair color, providing evidence that this gene is an important component in determining normal human pigment variation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188763	  Members of the 'frizzled' gene family encode 7-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for Wnt signaling proteins.  The FZD9 gene is located within the Williams syndrome common deletion region of chromosome 7, and heterozygous deletion of the FZD9 gene may contribute to the Williams syndrome phenotype.  FZD9 is expressed predominantly in brain, testis, eye, skeletal muscle, and kidney. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166189	 This intronless gene encodes a protein that may play a role in organelle biogenesis associated with melanosomes, platelet dense granules, and lysosomes. This protein interacts with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome 5 protein. Mutations in this gene are associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 6. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132446	 This gene is orthologous to a mouse gene that encodes a ferritin heavy polypeptide-like protein and shows testis-specific expression. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000147099	 Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alters chromosome structure and affects transcription factor access to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to class I of the histone deacetylase family. It catalyzes the deacetylation of lysine residues in the histone N-terminal tails and represses transcription in large multiprotein complexes with transcriptional co-repressors. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000213401	 This gene is a member of the MAGEA gene family. The members of this family encode proteins with 50 to 80% sequence identity to each other. The promoters and first exons of the MAGEA genes show considerable variability, suggesting that the existence of this gene family enables the same function to be expressed under different transcriptional controls. The MAGEA genes are clustered at chromosomal location Xq28. They have been implicated in some hereditary disorders, such as dyskeratosis congenita. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000107485	 This gene encodes a protein which belongs to the GATA family of transcription factors. The protein contains two GATA-type zinc fingers and is an important regulator of T-cell development and plays an important role in endothelial cell biology. Defects in this gene are the cause of hypoparathyroidism with sensorineural deafness and renal dysplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000167755	 Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiological functions. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicated in carcinogenesis and some have potential as novel cancer and other disease biomarkers. This gene is one of the fifteen kallikrein subfamily members located in a cluster on chromosome 19. The encoded enzyme is regulated by steroid hormones. In tissue culture, the enzyme has been found to generate amyloidogenic fragments from the amyloid precursor protein, suggesting a potential for involvement in Alzheimer's disease. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104921	 The protein encoded by this gene is a B-cell specific antigen, and a low-affinity receptor for IgE. It has essential roles in B cell growth and differentiation, and the regulation of IgE production. This protein also exists as a soluble secreted form, then functioning as a potent mitogenic growth factor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000137815	 This locus may represent a gene involved in regulation of transcription elongation and chromatin remodeling, based on studies of similar proteins in other organisms. The encoded protein may bind single-stranded DNA. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000136997	 The protein encoded by this gene is a multifunctional, nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a role in cell cycle progression, apoptosis and cellular transformation. It functions as a transcription factor that regulates transcription of specific target genes. Mutations, overexpression, rearrangement and translocation of this gene have been associated with a variety of hematopoietic tumors, leukemias and lymphomas, including Burkitt lymphoma. There is evidence to show that alternative translation initiations from an upstream, in-frame non-AUG (CUG) and a downstream AUG start site result in the production of two isoforms with distinct N-termini. The synthesis of non-AUG initiated protein is suppressed in Burkitt's lymphomas, suggesting its importance in the normal function of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000079841	 The protein encoded by this gene is a RAS gene superfamily member that regulates synaptic vesicle exocytosis. This gene also plays a role in the regulation of voltage-gated calcium channels during neurotransmitter and insulin release. Mutations have suggested a role cognition and have been identified as the cause of cone-rod dystrophy type 7. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000231852	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and hydroxylates steroids at the 21 position. Its activity is required for the synthesis of steroid hormones including cortisol and aldosterone. Mutations in this gene cause congenital adrenal hyperplasia. A related pseudogene is located near this gene; gene conversion events involving the functional gene and the pseudogene are thought to account for many cases of steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120942	 This gene encodes a protein thought to be involved in cholesterol and phospholipid metabolism. Mutations in this gene are associated with Schnyder crystalline corneal dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000196083	 Interleukin 1 induces synthesis of acute phase and proinflammatory proteins during infection, tissue damage, or stress, by forming a complex at the cell membrane with an interleukin 1 receptor and an accessory protein. This gene encodes the interleukin 1 receptor accessory protein. The protein is a necessary part of the interleukin 1 receptor complex which initiates signalling events that result in the activation of interleukin 1-responsive genes. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding two different isoforms, one membrane-bound and one soluble. The ratio of soluble to membrane-bound forms increases during acute-phase induction or stress. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000005884	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of integrins. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain, and function as cell surface adhesion molecules. This gene encodes alpha 3 subunit, which undergoes post-translational cleavage in the extracellular domain to yield disulfide-linked light and heavy chains that join with beta 1 subunit to form an integrin that interacts with many extracellular-matrix proteins. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000128573	 This gene encodes a member of the forkhead/winged-helix (FOX) family of transcription factors. It is expressed in fetal and adult brain as well as in several other organs such as the lung and gut. The protein product contains a FOX DNA-binding domain and a large polyglutamine tract and is an evolutionarily conserved transcription factor, which may bind directly to approximately 300 to 400 gene promoters in the human genome to regulate the expression of a variety of genes. This gene is required for proper development of speech and language regions of the brain during embryogenesis, and may be involved in a variety of biological pathways and cascades that may ultimately influence language development. Mutations in this gene cause speech-language disorder 1 (SPCH1), also known as autosomal dominant speech and language disorder with orofacial dyspraxia. Multiple alternative transcripts encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000150672	 This gene encodes a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with a related family member that may interact at postsynaptic sites to form a multimeric scaffold for the clustering of receptors, ion channels, and associated signaling proteins. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Additional transcript variants have been described, but their full-length nature is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000189132	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL645585.11. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000146063	 This gene encodes a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family. The TRIM family is characterized by a signature motif composed of a RING finger, one or more B-box domains, and a coiled-coil region. This encoded protein may play a role in protein kinase C signaling. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000185818	 This gene encodes a single-pass membrane protein, which contains a conserved sequence of the GCN5 or NAT superfamily of N-acetyltransferases and is a member of the N-acyltransferase (NAT) superfamily. This protein is a neuron-specific protein and is the N-acetylaspartate (NAA) biosynthetic enzyme, catalyzing the NAA synthesis from L-aspartate and acetyl-CoA. NAA is a major storage and transport form of acetyl coenzyme A specific to the nervous system. The gene mutation results in primary NAA deficiency (hypoacetylaspartia). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000144891	 Angiotensin II is a potent vasopressor hormone and a primary regulator of aldosterone secretion. It is an important effector controlling blood pressure and volume in the cardiovascular system. It acts through at least two types of receptors. This gene encodes the type 1 receptor which is thought to mediate the major cardiovascular effects of angiotensin II. This gene may play a role in the generation of reperfusion arrhythmias following restoration of blood flow to ischemic or infarcted myocardium. It was previously thought that a related gene, denoted as AGTR1B, existed; however, it is now believed that there is only one type 1 receptor gene in humans. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000170345	 The Fos gene family consists of 4 members: FOS, FOSB, FOSL1, and FOSL2.  These genes encode leucine zipper proteins that can dimerize with proteins of the JUN family, thereby forming the transcription factor complex AP-1.  As such, the FOS proteins have been implicated as regulators of cell proliferation, differentiation, and transformation.  In some cases, expression of the FOS gene has also been associated with apoptotic cell death. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198492	 This gene encodes a member of the YTH (YT521-B homology) superfamily containing YTH domain. The YTH domain is typical for the eukaryotes and is particularly abundant in plants. The YTH domain is usually located in the middle of the protein sequence and may function in binding to RNA. In addition to a YTH domain, this protein has a proline rich region which may be involved in signal transduction. An Alu-rich domain has been identified in one of the introns of this gene, which is thought to be associated with human longevity. In addition, reciprocal translocations between this gene and the Runx1 (AML1) gene on chromosome 21 has been observed in patients with acute myeloid leukemia. This gene was initially mapped to chromosome 14, which was later turned out to be a pseudogene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]. 
ENSG00000163501	 This gene encodes a member of the hedgehog family of secreted signaling molecules. Hedgehog proteins are essential regulators of a variety of developmental processes including growth, patterning and morphogenesis. The encoded protein specifically plays a role in bone growth an differentiation. Mutations in this gene are the cause of brachydactyly type A1 which is characterized by shortening or malformation of the phalanges. Mutations in this gene are also the cause of acrocapitofemoral dysplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000205268	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family, and PDE7 subfamily. This PDE hydrolyzes the second messenger, cAMP, which is a regulator and mediator of a number of cellular responses to extracellular signals. Thus, by regulating the cellular concentration of cAMP, this protein plays a key role in many important physiological processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000178562	 The protein encoded by this gene is essential for T-cell proliferation and survival, cytokine production, and T-helper type-2 development. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000183791	 The SIII (or elongin) transcription elongation factor complex stimulates the rate of transcription elongation by RNA polymerase II by suppressing the transient pausing of the polymerase at many sites along the DNA template. This complex is a heterotrimer, composed of the transcriptionally active subunit A, A2 or A3 (or elongin A, A2 or A3) and two regulatory subunits, B and C (or elongin B and C). This gene encodes subunit A3. A3 and A are ubiquitously expressed, whereas A2 is specifically expressed in the testis. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000106571	 This gene encodes a protein which belongs to the C2H2-type zinc finger proteins subclass of the Gli family. They are characterized as DNA-binding transcription factors and are mediators of Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling. The protein encoded by this gene localizes in the cytoplasm and activates patched Drosophila homolog (PTCH) gene expression. It is also thought to play a role during embryogenesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with several diseases, including Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome, Pallister-Hall syndrome, preaxial polydactyly type IV, and postaxial polydactyly types A1 and B. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166206	 This gene encodes a member of the ligand-gated ionic channel family. The encoded protein is one of at least 13 distinct subunits of a multisubunit chloride channel that serves as the receptor for gamma-aminobutyric acid, the major inhibitory transmitter of the nervous system. This gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 15 in a cluster with two genes encoding related subunits of the family. Mutations in this gene may be associated with the pathogenesis of Angelman syndrome, Prader-Willi syndrome, and autism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000151834	 GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. At least 16 distinct subunits of GABA-A receptors have been identified. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000103876	 This gene encodes the last enzyme in the tyrosine catabolism pathway. FAH deficiency is associated with Type 1 hereditary tyrosinemia (HT). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140505	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff in collaboration with Daniel Nebert. The reference sequence was derived from AC091230.23. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000183044	 4-aminobutyrate aminotransferase (ABAT) is responsible for catabolism of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), an important, mostly inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, into succinic semialdehyde. The active enzyme is a homodimer of 50-kD subunits complexed to pyridoxal-5-phosphate. The protein sequence is over 95% similar to the pig protein. GABA is estimated to be present in nearly one-third of human synapses. ABAT in liver and brain is controlled by 2 codominant alleles with a frequency in a Caucasian population of 0.56 and 0.44. The ABAT deficiency phenotype includes psychomotor retardation, hypotonia, hyperreflexia, lethargy, refractory seizures, and EEG abnormalities. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein isoform have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147202	 The product of this gene belongs to the diaphanous subfamily of the formin homology family of proteins. This gene may play a role in the development and normal function of the ovaries. Defects in this gene have been linked to premature ovarian failure 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133895	 This gene encodes menin, a putative tumor suppressor associated with a syndrome known as multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. In vitro studies have shown menin is localized to the nucleus, possesses two functional nuclear localization signals, and inhibits transcriptional activation by JunD, however, the function of this protein is not known. Two messages have been detected on northern blots but the larger message has not been characterized. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000106976	 This gene encodes a member of the dynamin subfamily of GTP-binding proteins. The encoded protein possesses unique mechanochemical properties used to tubulate and sever membranes, and is involved in clathrin-mediated endocytosis and other vesicular trafficking processes. Actin and other cytoskeletal proteins act as binding partners for the encoded protein, which can also self-assemble leading to stimulation of GTPase activity. More than sixty highly conserved copies of the 3' region of this gene are found elsewhere in the genome, particularly on chromosomes Y and 15. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109686	 This gene encodes a multiple SH3 domain-containing protein, which interacts with other proteins, such as EBP and members of ADAM family, via the SH3 domains. This protein may be involved in suppression of Ras-induced cellular transformation and Ras-mediated activation of ELK1 by EBP, and regulation of ADAM proteins in the signaling of EGFR-ligand shedding. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000111341	 The protein encoded by this gene is secreted and likely acts as an inhibitor of bone formation. The encoded protein is found in the organic matrix of bone and cartilage. Defects in this gene are a cause of Keutel syndrome (KS). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000135636	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ferlin family and is a skeletal muscle protein found associated with the sarcolemma. It is involved in muscle contraction and contains C2 domains that play a role in calcium-mediated membrane fusion events, suggesting that it may be involved in membrane regeneration and repair. In addition, the protein encoded by this gene binds caveolin-3, a skeletal muscle membrane protein which is important in the formation of caveolae. Specific mutations in this gene have been shown to cause autosomal recessive limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2B (LGMD2B) as well as Miyoshi myopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000100056	 This gene is located within the minimal DGS critical region (MDGCR) thought to contain the gene(s) responsible for a group of developmental disorders. These disorders include DiGeorge syndrome, velocardiofacial syndrome, conotruncal anomaly face syndrome, and some familial or sporadic conotruncal cardiac defects which have been associated with microdeletion of 22q11.2. The encoded protein may be a component of C complex spliceosomes, and the orthologous protein in the mouse localizes to the nucleus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000139988	 The protein encoded by this gene is an NADPH-dependent retinal reductase whose highest activity is toward 9-cis and all-trans-retinol. The encoded enzyme also plays a role in the metabolism of short-chain aldehydes but does not exhibit steroid dehydrogenase activity. Defects in this gene are a cause of Leber congenital amaurosis type 3 (LCA3). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000076984	 The protein encoded by this gene is a dual specificity protein kinase that belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family. This kinase specifically activates MAPK8/JNK1 and MAPK9/JNK2, and this kinase itself is phosphorylated and activated by MAP kinase kinase kinases including MAP3K1/MEKK1, MAP3K2/MEKK2,MAP3K3/MEKK5, and MAP4K2/GCK. This kinase is involved in the signal transduction mediating the cell responses to proinflammatory cytokines, and environmental stresses. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found, but only one transcript variant has been supported and defined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136238	 The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase which belongs to the RAS superfamily of small GTP-binding proteins. Members of this superfamily appear to regulate a diverse array of cellular events, including the control of cell growth, cytoskeletal reorganization, and the activation of protein kinases. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000244067	 Cytosolic and membrane-bound forms of glutathione S-transferase are encoded by two distinct supergene families. These enzymes function in the detoxification of electrophilic compounds, including carcinogens, therapeutic drugs, environmental toxins and products of oxidative stress, by conjugation with glutathione. The genes encoding these enzymes are known to be highly polymorphic. These genetic variations can change an individual's susceptibility to carcinogens and toxins as well as affect the toxicity and efficacy of some drugs. At present, eight distinct classes of the soluble cytoplasmic mammalian glutathione S-transferases have been identified: alpha, kappa, mu, omega, pi, sigma, theta and zeta. This gene encodes a glutathione S-tranferase belonging to the alpha class. The alpha class genes, located in a cluster mapped to chromosome 6, are the most abundantly expressed glutathione S-transferases in liver. In addition to metabolizing bilirubin and certain anti-cancer drugs in the liver, the alpha class of these enzymes exhibit glutathione peroxidase activity thereby protecting the cells from reactive oxygen species and the products of peroxidation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000103942	 This gene encodes a member of the homer family of dendritic proteins. Members of this family regulate group 1 metabotrophic glutamate receptor function. The encoded protein is a postsynaptic density scaffolding protein. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Two related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosome 14. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000164509	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the type I cytokine receptor family. This receptor, with homology to gp130, is expressed on monocytes, and is involved in IL-31 signaling via activation of STAT-3 and STAT-5. It functions either as a monomer, or as part of a receptor complex with oncostatin M receptor (OSMR). Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000162738	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein involved in the regulation of planar cell polarity, especially in the stereociliary bundles of the cochlea. The encoded protein transmits directional signals to individual cells or groups of cells in epithelial sheets. This protein is also involved in the development of the neural plate. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000163961	 This gene encodes an E3 ubiquitin ligase protein that contains a RING finger, a motif present in a variety of functionally distinct proteins and known to be involved in protein-DNA and protein-protein interactions. The protein is involved in DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair. Mutations in this gene result in Riddle syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000166501	 Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine- and threonine-specific protein kinases that can be activated by calcium and second messenger diacylglycerol. PKC family members phosphorylate a wide variety of protein targets and are known to be involved in diverse cellular signaling pathways. PKC family members also serve as major receptors for phorbol esters, a class of tumor promoters. Each member of the PKC family has a specific expression profile and is believed to play a distinct role in cells. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the PKC family members. This protein kinase has been reported to be involved in many different cellular functions, such as B cell activation, apoptosis induction, endothelial cell proliferation, and intestinal sugar absorption. Studies in mice also suggest that this kinase may also regulate neuronal functions and correlate fear-induced conflict behavior after stress. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165269	 Aquaporins/major intrinsic protein (MIP) are a family of water-selective membrane channels. Aquaporin 7 has greater sequence similarity with AQP3 and AQP9 and they may be a subfamily. Aquaporin 7 and AQP3 are at the same chromosomal location suggesting that 9p13 may be a site of an aquaporin cluster. Aquaporin 7 facilitates water, glycerol and urea transport. It may play an important role in sperm function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000177663	 Interleukin 17A (IL17A)is a proinflammatory cytokine secreted by activated T-lymphocytes. It is a potent inducer of the maturation of CD34-positive hematopoietic precursors into neutrophils. The protein encoded by this gene (interleukin 17A receptor; IL17RA) is a ubiquitous type I membrane glycoprotein that binds with low affinity to interleukin 17A. Interleukin 17A and its receptor play a pathogenic role in many inflammatory and autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis. Like other cytokine receptors, this receptor likely has a multimeric structure. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164010	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cell surface transmembrane protein that may act as an erythroid cell receptor, possibly as a mediator of cell adhesion. Polymorphisms in this gene are responsible for the Scianna/Radin blood group system. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the ERMAP*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000109819	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional coactivator that regulates the genes involved in energy metabolism. This protein interacts with PPARgamma, which permits the interaction of this protein with multiple transcription factors. This protein can interact with, and regulate the activities of, cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and nuclear respiratory factors (NRFs). It provides a direct link between external physiological stimuli and the regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis, and is a major factor that regulates muscle fiber type determination. This protein may be also involved in controlling blood pressure, regulating cellular cholesterol homoeostasis, and the development of obesity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000085840	 The origin recognition complex (ORC) is a highly conserved six subunits protein complex essential for the initiation of the DNA replication in eukaryotic cells. Studies in yeast demonstrated that ORC binds specifically to origins of replication and serves as a platform for the assembly of additional initiation factors such as Cdc6 and Mcm proteins. The protein encoded by this gene is the largest subunit of the ORC complex. While other ORC subunits are stable throughout the cell cycle, the levels of this protein vary during the cell cycle, which has been shown to be controlled by ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis after initiation of DNA replication. This protein is found to be selectively phosphorylated during mitosis. It is also reported to interact with MYST histone acetyltransferase 2 (MyST2/HBO1), a protein involved in control of transcription silencing. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000100473	 The protein encoded by this gene is highly conserved in human, mouse, and chicken, showing 94% and 79% amino acid identity of human to mouse and chicken sequences, respectively. Hybridization to this gene was detected in spindle-shaped cells located along nerve fibers between the auditory ganglion and sensory epithelium. These cells accompany neurites at the habenula perforata, the opening through which neurites extend to innervate hair cells. This and the pattern of expression of this gene in chicken inner ear paralleled the histologic findings of acidophilic deposits, consistent with mucopolysaccharide ground substance, in temporal bones from DFNA9 (autosomal dominant nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness 9) patients. Mutations that cause DFNA9 have been reported in this gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. Additional splice variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described but their biological validities have not been demonstrated. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000108439	 The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the terminal, rate-limiting step in the synthesis of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate, also known as vitamin B6. Vitamin B6 is a required co-factor for enzymes involved in both homocysteine metabolism and synthesis of neurotransmitters such as catecholamine. Mutations in this gene result in pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate oxidase (PNPO) deficiency, a form of neonatal epileptic encephalopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000131263	 The protein encoded by this gene is a RING-H2 zinc finger protein. It has been shown to be an E3 ubiquitin protein ligase that targets LIM domain binding 1 (LDB1/CLIM), and causes proteasome-dependent degradation of LDB1. This protein and LDB1 are co-repressors of LHX1/LIM-1, a homeodomain transcription factor. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000099821	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial DNA-directed RNA polymerase. The gene product is responsible for mitochondrial gene expression as well as for providing RNA primers for initiation of replication of the mitochondrial genome. Although this polypeptide has the same function as the three nuclear DNA-directed RNA polymerases, it is more closely related to RNA polymerases of phage and mitochondrial polymerases of lower eukaryotes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000016082	 This gene encodes a member of the LIM/homeodomain family of transcription factors. The encoded protein binds to the enhancer region of the insulin gene, among others, and may play an important role in regulating insulin gene expression. The encoded protein is central to the development of pancreatic cell lineages and may also be required for motor neuron generation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with maturity-onset diabetes of the young. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000144410	 This gene is a member of the metallocarboxypeptidase gene family. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000108384	 This gene is a member of the RAD51 family of related genes, which encode strand-transfer proteins thought to be involved in recombinational repair of damaged DNA and in meiotic recombination. This gene product interacts with two other DNA repair proteins, encoded by RAD51B and XRCC3, but not with itself. The protein copurifies with XRCC3 protein in a complex, reflecting their endogenous association and suggesting a cooperative role during recombinational repair. This gene is one of four localized to a region of chromosome 17q23 where amplification occurs frequently in breast tumors. Overexpression of the four genes during amplification has been observed and suggests a possible role in tumor progression. Alternative splicing has been observed for this gene and two variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184368	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AL732366.7. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000090861	 The human alanyl-tRNA synthetase (AARS) belongs to a family of tRNA synthases, of the class II enzymes.  Class II tRNA synthases evolved early in evolution and are highly conserved. This is reflected by the fact that 498 of the 968-residue polypeptide human AARS shares 41% identity witht the E.coli protein.  tRNA synthases are the enzymes that interpret the RNA code and attach specific aminoacids to the tRNAs that contain the cognate trinucleotide anticodons.  They consist of a catalytic domain which interacts with the amino acid acceptor-T psi C helix of the tRNA, and a second domain which interacts with the rest of the tRNA structure. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109705	 This gene encodes a member of the NK family of homeobox-containing proteins. The encoded protein may play a role in skeletal development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114737	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a SH2 domain and a SOCS box domain. The protein thus belongs to the cytokine-induced STAT inhibitor (CIS), also known as suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) or STAT-induced STAT inhibitor (SSI), protein family. CIS family members are known to be cytokine-inducible negative regulators of cytokine signaling. The expression of this gene can be induced by IL2, IL3, GM-CSF and EPO in hematopoietic cells. Proteasome-mediated degradation of this protein has been shown to be involved in the inactivation of the erythropoietin receptor. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000182162	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors, that are preferentially activated by adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This gene is moderately expressed in undifferentiated HL60 cells, and is located on both chromosomes X and Y. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115705	 This gene encodes a membrane-bound glycoprotein. The encoded protein acts as an enzyme and plays a central role in thyroid gland function. The protein functions in the iodination of tyrosine residues in thyroglobulin and phenoxy-ester formation between pairs of iodinated tyrosines to generate the thyroid hormones, thyroxine and triiodothyronine. Mutations in this gene are associated with several disorders of thyroid hormonogenesis, including congenital hypothyroidism, congenital goiter, and thyroid hormone organification defect IIA. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000197208	 Polyspecific organic cation transporters in the liver, kidney, intestine, and other organs are critical for elimination of many endogenous small organic cations as well as a wide array of drugs and environmental toxins. The encoded protein is an organic cation transporter and plasma integral membrane protein containing eleven putative transmembrane domains as well as a nucleotide-binding site motif. Transport by this protein is at least partially ATP-dependent. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000018280	 This gene is a member of the solute carrier family 11 (proton-coupled divalent metal ion transporters) family and encodes a multi-pass membrane protein. The protein functions as a divalent transition metal (iron and manganese) transporter involved in iron metabolism and host resistance to certain pathogens. Mutations in this gene have been associated with susceptibility to infectious diseases such as tuberculosis and leprosy, and inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn disease. Alternatively spliced variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described but the full-length nature of only one has been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000174175	 This gene encodes a 140 kDa protein that is stored in the alpha-granules of platelets and Weibel-Palade bodies of endothelial cells. This protein redistributes to the plasma membrane during platelet activation and degranulation and mediates the interaction of activated endothelial cells or platelets with leukocytes. The membrane protein is a calcium-dependent receptor that binds to sialylated forms of Lewis blood group carbohydrate antigens on neutrophils and monocytes. Alternative splice variants may occur but are not well documented. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000007908	 The protein encoded by this gene is found in cytokine-stimulated endothelial cells and is thought to be responsible for the accumulation of blood leukocytes at sites of inflammation by mediating the adhesion of cells to the vascular lining. It exhibits structural features such as the presence of lectin- and EGF-like domains followed by short consensus repeat (SCR) domains that contain 6 conserved cysteine residues. These proteins are part of the selectin family of cell adhesion molecules. Adhesion molecules participate in the interaction between leukocytes and the endothelium and appear to be involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000181856	 This gene is a member of the solute carrier family 2 (facilitated glucose transporter) family and encodes a protein that functions as an insulin-regulated facilitative glucose transporter. In the absence of insulin, this integral membrane protein is sequestered within the cells of muscle and adipose tissue. Within minutes of insulin stimulation, the protein moves to the cell surface and begins to transport glucose across the cell membrane. Mutations in this gene have been associated with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204248	 This gene encodes one of the two alpha chains of type XI collagen, a minor fibrillar collagen. It is located on chromosome 6 very close to but separate from the gene for retinoid X receptor beta. Type XI collagen is a heterotrimer but the third alpha chain is a post-translationally modified alpha 1 type II chain. Proteolytic processing of this type XI chain produces PARP, a proline/arginine-rich protein that is an amino terminal domain. Mutations in this gene are associated with type III Stickler syndrome, otospondylomegaepiphyseal dysplasia (OSMED syndrome), Weissenbacher-Zweymuller syndrome, autosomal dominant non-syndromic sensorineural type 13 deafness (DFNA13), and autosomal recessive non-syndromic sensorineural type 53 deafness (DFNB53). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene is located nearby on chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000143839	 Renin catalyzes the first step in the activation pathway of angiotensinogen--a cascade that can result in aldosterone release,vasoconstriction, and increase in blood pressure. Renin, an aspartyl protease, cleaves angiotensinogen to form angiotensin I, which is converted to angiotensin II by angiotensin I converting enzyme, an important regulator of blood pressure and electrolyte balance. Transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms and that arise from alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters have been described, but their full-length nature has not been determined. Mutations in this gene have been shown to cause familial hyperproreninemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175198	 The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha subunit of the heterodimeric mitochondrial enzyme Propionyl-CoA carboxylase. PCCA encodes the biotin-binding region of this enzyme. Mutations in either PCCA or PCCB (encoding the beta subunit) lead to an enzyme deficiency resulting in propionic acidemia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000161011	 This gene encodes a multifunctional protein that binds ubiquitin and regulates activation of the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kB) signaling pathway. The protein functions as a scaffolding/adaptor protein in concert with TNF receptor-associated factor 6 to mediate activation of NF-kB in response to upstream signals. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding either the same or different isoforms have been identified for this gene. Mutations in this gene result in sporadic and familial Paget disease of bone. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000204410	 This gene encodes a member of the mutS family of proteins that are involved in DNA mismatch repair and meiotic recombination. This protein is similar to a Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein that participates in segregation fidelity and crossing-over events during meiosis. This protein plays a role in promoting ionizing radiation-induced apoptosis. This protein forms hetero-oligomers with another member of this family, mutS homolog 4. Polymorphisms in this gene have been linked to various human diseases, including IgA deficiency, common variable immunodeficiency, and premature ovarian failure. Alternative splicing results multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the downstream chromosome 6 open reading frame 26 (C6orf26) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000166313	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Fe65 protein family. It is an adaptor protein localized in the nucleus. It interacts with the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein (APP), transcription factor CP2/LSF/LBP1 and the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein. APP functions as a cytosolic anchoring site that can prevent the gene product's nuclear translocation. This encoded protein could play an important role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. It is thought to regulate transcription. Also it is observed to block cell cycle progression by downregulating thymidylate synthase expression. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000119401	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. The protein localizes to cytoplasmic bodies. The protein has also been localized to the nucleus, where it interacts with the activation domain of the HIV-1 Tat protein. The Tat protein activates transcription of HIV-1 genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000086544	 This gene encodes a member of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P(3)] 3-kinase family of enzymes that catalyze the phosphorylation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate to 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate. The encoded protein is localized to the nucleus and cytoplasm and has both nuclear import and nuclear export activity. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene are associated with Kawasaki disease.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000131844	 This gene encodes the small subunit of 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase. This enzyme functions as a heterodimer and catalyzes the carboxylation of 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA to form 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA. Mutations in this gene are associated with 3-Methylcrotonylglycinuria, an  autosomal recessive disorder of leucine catabolism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143603	 Action potentials in vertebrate neurons are followed by an afterhyperpolarization (AHP) that may persist for several seconds and may have profound consequences for the firing pattern of the neuron. Each component of the AHP is kinetically distinct and is mediated by different calcium-activated potassium channels. This gene belongs to the KCNN family of potassium channels. It encodes an integral membrane protein that forms a voltage-independent calcium-activated channel, which is thought to regulate neuronal excitability by contributing to the slow component of synaptic AHP. This gene contains two CAG repeat regions in the coding sequence. It was thought that expansion of one or both of these repeats could lead to an increased susceptibility to schizophrenia or bipolar disorder, but studies indicate that this is probably not the case. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000129680	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the MAP7 (microtubule-associated protein 7) family. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000164754	 The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to the gene product of Schizosaccharomyces pombe rad21, a gene involved in the repair of DNA double-strand breaks, as well as in chromatid cohesion during mitosis. This protein is a nuclear phospho-protein, which becomes hyperphosphorylated in cell cycle M phase. The highly regulated association of this protein with mitotic chromatin specifically at the centromere region suggests its role in sister chromatid cohesion in mitotic cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102383	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the DHHC palmitoyltransferase family. Mutations in this gene are associated with mental retardatio X-linked type 91 (MRX91). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000180815	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family. These family members function in a protein kinase signal transduction cascade, where an activated MAPK kinase kinase (MAP3K) phosphorylates and activates a specific MAPK kinase (MAP2K), which then activates a specific MAPK. This MAP3K protein plays an essential role in apoptotic cell death triggered by cellular stresses. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000139324	 This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the transmembrane and tetratricopeptide repeat-containing protein family. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000120925	 This gene encodes a RING domain-containing protein that resides in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane. This protein functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase and mediates ubiquitination and processing of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptors via the ER-associated protein degradation pathway. It is recruited to the activated IP3 receptors by the ERLIN1/ERLIN2 complex to which it is constitutively bound. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant sensory ataxia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000163081	 This gene encodes a protein that appears to be restricted to select higher primate species. This protein contains a C-terminal coiled-coil domain, which is a versatile structural motif consisting of multiple amphipathic alpha-helices that twist around each other to form a supercoil. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000121634	 This gene encodes a transmembrane connexin protein that is necessary for lens growth and maturation of lens fiber cells. The encoded protein is a component of gap junction channels and functions in a calcium and pH-dependent manner. Mutations in this gene have been associated with zonular pulverulent cataracts, nuclear progressive cataracts, and cataract-microcornea syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000128311	 This is one of two neighboring genes encoding similar proteins that each contain two rhodanese domains. The encoded protein is localized to the mitochondria and catalyzes the conversion of thiosulfate and cyanide to thiocyanate and sulfite. In addition, the protein interacts with 5S ribosomal RNA and facilitates its import into the mitochondria. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000121552	 The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins, and kininogens. This gene encodes a stefin that functions as a cysteine protease inhibitor, forming tight complexes with papain and the cathepsins B, H, and L. The protein is one of the precursor proteins of cornified cell envelope in keratinocytes and plays a role in epidermal development and maintenance. Stefins have been proposed as prognostic and diagnostic tools for cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145649	 Cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL) and natural killer (NK) cells share the remarkable ability to recognize, bind, and lyse specific target cells. They are thought to protect their host by lysing cells bearing on their surface 'nonself' antigens, usually peptides or proteins resulting from infection by intracellular pathogens. The protein described here is a T cell- and natural killer cell-specific serine protease that may function as a common component necessary for lysis of target cells by cytotoxic T lymphocytes and natural killer cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000235718	 A bicistronic transcript encodes the products of the membrane frizzled-related gene and the complement C1q tumor necrosis factor-related gene 5, located on chromosome 11. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000147804	 This gene encodes a member of the zinc/iron-regulated transporter-like protein (ZIP) family. The transmembrane protein is required for zinc uptake in the intestine. Mutations in this gene result in acrodermatitis enteropathica, a rare inherited defect in the absorption of dietary zinc. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182871	 This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XVIII collagen. This collagen is one of the multiplexins, extracellular matrix proteins that contain multiple triple-helix domains (collagenous domains) interrupted by non-collagenous domains. The proteolytically produced C-terminal fragment of type XVIII collagen is endostatin, a potent antiangiogenic protein. Mutations in this gene are associated with Knobloch syndrome. The main features of this syndrome involve retinal abnormalities, so type XVIII collagen may play an important role in retinal structure and in neural tube closure. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000166828	 Nonvoltage-gated, amiloride-sensitive, sodium channels control fluid and electrolyte transport across epithelia in many organs. These channels are heteromeric complexes consisting of 3 subunits: alpha, beta, and gamma. This gene encodes the gamma subunit, and mutations in this gene have been associated with Liddle syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000144659	 This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier family. The encoded protein is required during erythropoiesis and is important for the biosynthesis of heme. Mutations in this gene are the cause of autosomal congenital sideroblastic anemia.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000091622	 This gene encodes a member of a family of membrane-associated phosphatidylinositol transfer domain-containing proteins. The calcium-binding protein has phosphatidylinositol (PI) transfer activity and interacts with the protein tyrosine kinase PTK2B (also known as PYK2). The protein is homologous to a Drosophila protein that is implicated in the visual transduction pathway in flies. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal dominant cone dystrophy. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000105499	 This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the phospholipase A2 enzyme family which hydrolyzes glycerophospholipids to produce free fatty acids and lysophospholipids, both of which serve as precursors in the production of signaling molecules. The encoded protein has been shown to be a calcium-independent and membrane bound enzyme. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000106536	 This gene encodes a member of the POU protein family characterized by the presence of a bipartite DNA binding domain, consisting of a POU-specific domain and a homeodomain, separated by a variable polylinker. The DNA binding domain may bind to DNA as monomers or as homo- and/or heterodimers, in a sequence-specific manner. The POU family members are transcriptional regulators, many of which are known to control cell type-specific differentiation pathways. This gene is a tumor suppressor involved in Wilms tumor (WT) predisposition. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000173085	 This gene encodes an enzyme that functions in the final steps in the biosynthesis of CoQ (ubiquinone), a redox carrier in the mitochondrial respiratory chain and a lipid-soluble antioxidant. This enzyme, which is part of the coenzyme Q10 pathway, catalyzes the prenylation of parahydroxybenzoate with an all-trans polyprenyl group. Mutations in this gene cause coenzyme Q10 deficiency, a mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, and also COQ2 nephropathy, an inherited form of mitochondriopathy with primary renal involvement. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000153064	 The protein encoded by this gene is a B-cell-specific scaffold protein that functions in B-cell receptor-induced calcium mobilization from intracellular stores. This protein can also promote Lyn-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000120903	 Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are ligand-gated ion channels formed by a pentameric arrangement of alpha and beta subunits to create distinct muscle and neuronal receptors. Neuronal receptors are found throughout the peripheral and central nervous system where they are involved in fast synaptic transmission. This gene encodes an alpha subunit that is widely expressed in the brain. The proposed structure for nAChR subunits is a conserved N-terminal extracellular domain followed by three conserved transmembrane domains, a variable cytoplasmic loop, a fourth conserved transmembrane domain, and a short C-terminal extracellular region. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy type 4. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in this gene have been associated with nicotine dependence. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000145191	 This gene encodes one of five subunits of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2B (EIF2B), a GTP exchange factor for eukaryotic initiation factor 2 and an essential regulator for protein synthesis. Mutations in this gene and the genes encoding other EIF2B subunits have been associated with leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000173040	 This gene encodes a protein that functions in bone formation and skeletal development. Mutations in this gene, as well as in a neighboring gene that lies in a head-to-head configuration, cause Ellis-van Creveld syndrome, an autosomal recessive skeletal dysplasia that is also known as chondroectodermal dysplasia. Mutations in this gene also cause acrofacial dysostosis Weyers type, also referred to as Curry-Hall syndrome, a disease that combines limb and facial abnormalities. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000109738	 This gene encodes the beta subunit of the glycine receptor, which is a pentamer composed of alpha and beta subunits. The receptor functions as a neurotransmitter-gated ion channel, which produces hyperpolarization via increased chloride conductance due to the binding of glycine to the receptor. Mutations in this gene cause startle disease, also known as hereditary hyperekplexia or congenital stiff-person syndrome, a disease characterized by muscular rigidity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000178177	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that appears to function in spermatogenesis. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with measures of skeletal frame size and adult height. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000133731	 This gene encodes an enyzme that dephosphorylates myo-inositol monophosphate to generate free myo-inositol, a precursor of phosphatidylinositol, and is therefore an important modulator of intracellular signal transduction via the production of the second messengers myoinositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol. This enzyme can also use myo-inositol-1,3-diphosphate, myo-inositol-1,4-diphosphate, scyllo-inositol-phosphate, glucose-1-phosphate, glucose-6-phosphate, fructose-1-phosphate, beta-glycerophosphate, and 2'-AMP as substrates. This enzyme shows magnesium-dependent phosphatase activity and is inhibited by therapeutic concentrations of lithium. Inhibition of inositol monophosphate hydroylosis and subsequent depletion of inositol for phosphatidylinositol synthesis may explain the anti-manic and anti-depressive effects of lithium administered to treat bipolar disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. A pseudogene of this gene is also present on chromosome 8q21.13. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000167701	 This gene encodes cytosolic alanine aminotransaminase 1 (ALT1); also known as glutamate-pyruvate transaminase 1. This enzyme catalyzes the reversible transamination between alanine and 2-oxoglutarate to generate pyruvate and glutamate and, therefore, plays a key role in the intermediary metabolism of glucose and amino acids. Serum activity levels of this enzyme are routinely used as a biomarker of liver injury caused by drug toxicity, infection, alcohol, and steatosis. A related gene on chromosome 16 encodes a putative mitochondrial alanine aminotransaminase.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000205927	 This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor which is expressed in oligodendroglial tumors of the brain. The protein is an essential regulator of ventral neuroectodermal progenitor cell fate. The gene is involved in a chromosomal translocation t(14;21)(q11.2;q22) associated with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Its chromosomal location is within a region of chromosome 21 which has been suggested to play a role in learning deficits associated with Down syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124313	 This gene encodes a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for the ARF family of small GTP-binding proteins. The encoded protein is a component of the postsynaptic density at excitatory synapses, and may play a critical role in cytoskeletal and synaptic organization through the activation of selected ARF substrates including ARF1 and ARF6. Mutations in this gene have been implicated in nonsyndromic X-linked mental retardation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000171433	 This gene encodes a protein with a glyoxalase domain. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000187268	 This gene is a member of a gene family which arose through duplication on the X chromosome. The encoded protein may be localized to the nucleus as the protein contains several nuclear localization signals, and has similarity to a synaptonemal complex protein. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000130827	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the plexin class of proteins. The encoded protein is a transmembrane protein that is exposed on the cell surface. This gene is thought to be involved in epithelial and neural tissue development. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000057657	 This gene encodes a protein that acts as a repressor of beta-interferon gene expression. The protein binds specifically to the PRDI (positive regulatory domain I element) of the beta-IFN gene promoter. Transcription of this gene increases upon virus induction. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162998	 The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted protein that is involved in the regulation of bone development. Defects in this gene are a cause of female-specific osteoarthritis (OA) susceptibility. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000198034	 Cytoplasmic ribosomes, organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes ribosomal protein S4, a component of the 40S subunit. Ribosomal protein S4 is the only ribosomal protein known to be encoded by more than one gene, namely this gene and ribosomal protein S4, Y-linked (RPS4Y). The 2 isoforms encoded by these genes are not identical, but are functionally equivalent. Ribosomal protein S4 belongs to the S4E family of ribosomal proteins. This gene is not subject to X-inactivation. It has been suggested that haploinsufficiency of the ribosomal protein S4 genes plays a role in Turner syndrome; however, this hypothesis is controversial. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000065534	 This gene, a muscle member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily, encodes myosin light chain kinase which is a calcium/calmodulin dependent enzyme. This kinase phosphorylates myosin regulatory light chains to facilitate myosin interaction with actin filaments to produce contractile activity. This gene encodes both smooth muscle and nonmuscle isoforms. In addition, using a separate promoter in an intron in the 3' region, it encodes telokin, a small protein identical in sequence to the C-terminus of myosin light chain kinase, that is independently expressed in smooth muscle and functions to stabilize unphosphorylated myosin filaments. A pseudogene is located on the p arm of chromosome 3. Four transcript variants that produce four isoforms of the calcium/calmodulin dependent enzyme have been identified as well as two transcripts that produce two isoforms of telokin. Additional variants have been identified but lack full length transcripts. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000152213	 This gene encodes a tumor suppressor related to the ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) family of proteins. The encoded protein may play a role in apoptosis in a caspase-dependent manner. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with some familial cancers. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000198908	 This gene is a member of a gene family which encodes proteins with a basic helix-loop-helix domain. Other members of this gene family encode proteins which function as transcription factors, either enhancing or inhibiting transcription depending on the activity of other DNA binding proteins. The coding region of this gene is located entirely within the terminal exon. The encoded protein may be involved in the survival of neurons (PMID: 15034937). Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000174740	 This gene encodes a protein that binds to the polyA tail found at the 3' end of most eukaryotic mRNAs. It is thought to play a role in the regulation of mRNA metabolic processes in the cytoplasm. This gene is located in a gene-poor region within the X-specific 13d-sY43 subinterval of the chromosome Xq21.3/Yp11.2 homology block. It is located close to translocation breakpoints associated with premature ovarian failure, and is therefore a potential candidate gene for this disorder. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000003989	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cationic amino acid transporter and a member of the APC (amino acid-polyamine-organocation) family of transporters. The encoded membrane protein is responsible for the cellular uptake of arginine, lysine and ornithine. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000164970	 The protein encoded by this gene has homologs that have been identified in mouse, macaque, etc organisms. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000189283	 This gene, a member of the histidine triad gene family, encodes a diadenosine 5',5'''-P1,P3-triphosphate hydrolase involved in purine metabolism. The gene encompasses the common fragile site FRA3B on chromosome 3, where carcinogen-induced damage can lead to translocations and aberrant transcripts of this gene. In fact, aberrant transcripts from this gene have been found in about half of all esophageal, stomach, and colon carcinomas. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000163541	 This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the heterodimeric enzyme succinate coenzyme A ligase. This enzyme is targeted to the mitochondria and catalyzes the conversion of succinyl CoA and ADP or GDP to succinate and ATP or GTP. Mutations in this gene are the cause of the metabolic disorder fatal infantile lactic acidosis and mitochondrial DNA depletion. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000100644	 This gene encodes the alpha subunit of transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1), which is a heterodimer composed of an alpha and a beta subunit. HIF-1 functions as a master regulator of cellular and systemic homeostatic response to hypoxia by activating transcription of many genes, including those involved in energy metabolism, angiogenesis, apoptosis, and other genes whose protein products increase oxygen delivery or facilitate metabolic adaptation to hypoxia. HIF-1 thus plays an essential role in embryonic vascularization, tumor angiogenesis and pathophysiology of ischemic disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000025156	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the HSF family of transcription factors that bind specifically to the heat-shock promoter element and activate transcription. Heat shock transcription factors activate heat-shock response genes under conditions of heat or other stresses. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000107521	 This gene encodes a protein that may play a role in organelle biogenesis associated with melanosomes, platelet dense granules, and lysosomes. The encoded protein is a component of three different protein complexes termed biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complex (BLOC)-3, BLOC4, and BLOC5. Mutations in this gene are associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 1. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene; the full-length sequences of some of these have not been determined yet. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000003096	 This gene encodes a BTB and kelch domain containing protein and belongs to the kelch repeat domain containing superfamily of proteins. The encoded protein functions as an adaptor protein that complexes with Cullin 3 and other proteins to form the Cullin 3-based E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex. This complex is necessary for proper chromosome segregation and completion of cytokinesis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000119661	 This gene encodes an axonemal dynein light chain which functions as a component of the outer dynein arms complex. This complex acts as the molecular motor that provides the force to move cilia in an ATP-dependent manner. The encoded protein is expressed in tissues with motile cilia or flagella and may be involved in the movement of sperm flagella. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000105355	 Mannose 6-phophate receptors (MPRs) deliver lysosomal hydrolase from the Golgi to endosomes and then return to the Golgi complex. The protein encoded by this gene interacts with the cytoplasmic domains of both cation-independent and cation-dependent MPRs, and is required for endosome-to-Golgi transport. This protein also binds directly to the GTPase RAB9 (RAB9A), a member of the RAS oncogene family. The interaction with RAB9 has been shown to increase the affinity of this protein for its cargo. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000185664	 This gene encodes a melanocyte-specific type I transmembrane glycoprotein. The encoded protein is enriched in melanosomes, which are the melanin-producing organelles in melanocytes, and plays an essential role in the structural organization of premelanosomes. This protein is involved in generating internal matrix fibers that define the transition from Stage I to Stage II melanosomes. This protein undergoes a complex pattern of prosttranslational processing and modification that is essential to the proper functioning of the protein. A secreted form of this protein that is released by proteolytic ectodomain shedding may be used as a melanoma-specific serum marker. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000141985	 This gene encodes a member of the endophilin family of Src homology 3 domain-containing proteins. The encoded protein is involved in endocytosis and may also play a role in the cell cycle. Overexpression of this gene may play a role in leukemogenesis, and the encoded protein has been implicated in acute myeloid leukemia as a fusion partner of the myeloid-lymphoid leukemia protein. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on the long arm of chromosomes 11 and 17. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000029534	 Ankyrins are a family of proteins that link the integral membrane proteins to the underlying spectrin-actin cytoskeleton and play key roles in activities such as cell motility, activation, proliferation, contact and the maintenance of specialized membrane domains. Multiple isoforms of ankyrin with different affinities for various target proteins are expressed in a tissue-specific, developmentally regulated manner. Most ankyrins are typically composed of three structural domains: an amino-terminal domain containing multiple ankyrin repeats; a central region with a highly conserved spectrin binding domain; and a carboxy-terminal regulatory domain which is the least conserved and subject to variation. Ankyrin 1, the prototype of this family, was first discovered in the erythrocytes, but since has also been found in brain and muscles. Mutations in erythrocytic ankyrin 1 have been associated in approximately half of all patients with hereditary spherocytosis. Complex patterns of alternative splicing in the regulatory domain, giving rise to different isoforms of ankyrin 1 have been described. Truncated muscle-specific isoforms of ankyrin 1 resulting from usage of an alternate promoter have also been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000137074	 This gene encodes a member of the histidine triad (HIT) superfamily. The encoded protein may play a role in single-stranded DNA repair through its nucleotide-binding activity and its diadenosine polyphosphate hydrolase activity. Mutations in this gene have been associated with ataxia-ocular apraxia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000160360	 G-protein signaling modulators (GPSMs) play diverse functional roles through their interaction with G-protein subunits. This gene encodes a receptor-independent activator of G protein signaling, which is one of several factors that influence the basal activity of G-protein signaling systems. The protein contains seven tetratricopeptide repeats in its N-terminal half and four G-protein regulatory (GPR) motifs in its C-terminal half. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000171953	 This gene encodes an assembly factor for the F(1) component of the mitochondrial ATP synthase. This protein binds specifically to the F1 alpha subunit and is thought to prevent this subunit from forming nonproductive homooligomers during enzyme assembly. This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. An alternatively spliced transcript variant has been described, but its biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163050	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein similar to yeast ABC1, which functions in an electron-transferring membrane protein complex in the respiratory chain. It is not related to the family of ABC transporter proteins. Expression of this gene is induced by the tumor suppressor p53 and in response to DNA damage, and inhibiting its expression partially suppresses p53-induced apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found; however, their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000144619	 This gene encodes a member of the contactin family of immunoglobulins. Contactins are axon-associated cell adhesion molecules that function in neuronal network formation and plasticity. The encoded protein is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored neuronal membrane protein that may play a role in the formation of axon connections in the developing nervous system. Deletion or mutation of this gene may play a role in 3p deletion syndrome and autism spectrum disorders. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000115541	 This gene encodes a major heat shock protein which functions as a chaperonin. Its structure consists of a heptameric ring which binds to another heat shock protein in order to form a symmetric, functional heterodimer which enhances protein folding in an ATP-dependent manner. This gene and its co-chaperonin, HSPD1, are arranged in a head-to-head orientation on chromosome 2. Naturally occurring read-through transcription occurs between this locus and the neighboring locus MOBKL3.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000157554	 This gene encodes a member of the erythroblast transformation-specific (ETS) family of transcriptions factors. All members of this family are key regulators of embryonic development, cell proliferation, differentiation, angiogenesis, inflammation, and apoptosis. The protein encoded by this gene is mainly expressed in the nucleus. It contains an ETS DNA-binding domain and a PNT (pointed) domain which is implicated in the self-association of chimeric oncoproteins. This protein is required for platelet adhesion to the subendothelium, inducing vascular cell remodeling. It also regulates hematopoesis, and the differentiation and maturation of megakaryocytic cells. This gene is involved in chromosomal translocations, resulting in different fusion gene products, such as TMPSSR2-ERG and NDRG1-ERG in prostate cancer, EWS-ERG in Ewing's sarcoma and FUS-ERG in acute myeloid leukemia. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000108961	 This gene encodes a protein that has been shown to function as a guanine nucleotide release factor in mouse and to regulate the expression and function of the Nav1.5 cardiac sodium channel in human. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000101049	 This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase. Although this gene product is similar to serum- and glucocorticoid-induced protein kinase (SGK), this gene is not induced by serum or glucocorticoids. This gene is induced in response to signals that activate phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, which is also true for SGK. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000147274	 This gene belongs to the RBMY gene family which includes candidate Y chromosome spermatogenesis genes. This gene, an active X chromosome homolog of the Y chromosome RBMY gene, is widely expressed whereas the RBMY gene evolved a male-specific function in spermatogenesis. Pseudogenes of this gene, found on chromosomes 1, 4, 9, 11, and 6, were likely derived by retrotransposition from the original gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. A snoRNA gene (SNORD61) is found in one of its introns. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000214160	 This gene encodes a member of the ALG3 family. The encoded protein catalyses the addition of the first dol-P-Man derived mannose in an alpha 1,3 linkage to Man5GlcNAc2-PP-Dol. Defects in this gene have been associated with congenital disorder of glycosylation type Id (CDG-Id) characterized by abnormal N-glycosylation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000241106	 HLA-DOB belongs to the HLA class II beta chain paralogues. This class II molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha (DOA) and a beta chain (DOB), both anchored in the membrane. It is located in intracellular vesicles. DO suppresses peptide loading of MHC class II molecules by inhibiting HLA-DM. Class II molecules are expressed in antigen presenting cells (APC: B lymphocytes, dendritic cells, macrophages). The beta chain is approximately 26-28 kDa and its gene contains 6 exons. Exon one encodes the leader peptide, exons 2 and 3 encode the two extracellular domains, exon 4 encodes the transmembrane domain and exon 5 encodes the cytoplasmic tail. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204642	 This gene belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues. It encodes a non-classical heavy chain that forms a heterodimer with a beta-2 microglobulin light chain, with the heavy chain anchored in the membrane. Unlike most other HLA heavy chains, this molecule is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, with a small amount present at the cell surface in some cell types. It contains a divergent peptide-binding groove, and is thought to bind a restricted subset of peptides for immune presentation. This gene exhibits few polymorphisms. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. These variants lack a coding exon found in transcripts from other HLA paralogues due to an altered splice acceptor site, resulting in a shorter cytoplasmic domain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135338	 This gene encodes a protein that is thought to be involved in centrosomal or ciliary functions. Mutations in this gene cause Leber congenital amaurosis type V. Alternatively spliced transcript variants are described. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000054179	 The protein encoded by this gene is the type 2 enzyme of the ecto-nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase family (E-NTPDase). E-NTPDases are a family of ecto-nucleosidases that hydrolyze 5'-triphosphates. This ecto-ATPase is an integral membrane protein. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130921	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AC073857.30 and AC068768.31. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project.  SUMMARY: This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial matrix protein that appears to contribute to peptide chain termination in the mitochondrial translation machinery. Two different 1 bp deletions (resulting in the same premature stop codon)result in decreased mitochondrial translation, decreased levels of oxidative phosphorylation complexes and encepthalomyopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000244731	 This gene encodes the acidic form of complement factor 4, part of the classical activation pathway. The protein is expressed as a single chain precursor which is proteolytically cleaved into a trimer of alpha, beta, and gamma chains prior to secretion. The trimer provides a surface for interaction between the antigen-antibody complex and other complement components. The alpha chain may be cleaved to release C4 anaphylatoxin, a mediator of local inflammation. Deficiency of this protein is associated with systemic lupus erythematosus and type I diabetes mellitus. This gene localizes to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class III region on chromosome 6. Varying haplotypes of this gene cluster exist, such that individuals may have 1, 2, or 3 copies of this gene. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the C4A*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000100714	 This gene encodes a protein that possesses three distinct enzymatic activities, 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase, 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydrolase and 10-formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase. Each of these activities catalyzes one of three sequential reactions in the interconversion of 1-carbon derivatives of tetrahydrofolate, which are substrates for methionine, thymidylate, and de novo purine syntheses. The trifunctional enzymatic activities are conferred by two major domains, an aminoterminal portion containing the dehydrogenase and cyclohydrolase activities and a larger synthetase domain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168216	 This gene encodes a lysosomal membrane protein that may be involved in the transport and metabolism of cobalamin. This protein also interacts with the large form of the hepatitis delta antigen and may be required for the nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of the hepatitis delta virus. Mutations in this gene are associated with the vitamin B12 metabolism disorder termed, homocystinuria-megaloblastic anemia complementation type F.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000118260	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that is a member of the leucine zipper family of DNA binding proteins. This protein binds as a homodimer to the cAMP-responsive element, an octameric palindrome. The protein is phosphorylated by several protein kinases, and induces transcription of genes in response to hormonal stimulation of the cAMP pathway. Alternate splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157212	 This gene is a member of the paired box (PAX) gene family and encodes a nuclear protein with six BRCT (breast cancer carboxy-terminal) domains. This protein plays a critical role in maintaining genome stability, condensation of chromatin and progression through mitosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120008	 This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. This gene is located in the chromosome 10q25-26 region, which is frequently deleted in gliomas and tumors of other tissues, and is disrupted by the t(10;19) translocation rearrangement in glioblastoma cells. The gene location suggests that it is a candidate gene for the tumor suppressor locus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147883	 This gene lies adjacent to the tumor suppressor gene CDKN2A in a region that is frequently mutated and deleted in a wide variety of tumors. This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which forms a complex with CDK4 or CDK6, and prevents the activation of the CDK kinases, thus the encoded protein functions as a cell growth regulator that controls cell cycle G1 progression. The expression of this gene was found to be dramatically induced by TGF beta, which suggested its role in the TGF beta induced growth inhibition. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene, which encode distinct proteins, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134575	 This gene encodes the beta subunit of lysosomal acid phosphatase (LAP). LAP is chemically and genetically distinct from red cell acid phosphatase. The encoded protein belongs to a family of distinct isoenzymes which hydrolyze orthophosphoric monoesters to alcohol and phosphate. Mutations in this gene or in the related alpha subunit gene cause acid phosphatase deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000114026	 This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for the excision of 8-oxoguanine, a mutagenic base byproduct which occurs as a result of exposure to reactive oxygen. The action of this enzyme includes lyase activity for chain cleavage. Alternative splicing of the C-terminal region of this gene classifies splice variants into two major groups, type 1 and type 2, depending on the last exon of the sequence. Type 1 alternative splice variants end with exon 7 and type 2 end with exon 8. All variants share the N-terminal region in common, which contains a mitochondrial targeting signal that is essential for mitochondrial localization. Many alternative splice variants for this gene have been described, but the full-length nature for every variant has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000169313	 The product of this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors. This family has several receptor subtypes with different pharmacological selectivity, which overlaps in some cases, for various adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This receptor is involved in platelets aggregation, and is a potential target for the treatment of thromboembolisms and other clotting disorders. Two transcript variants encoding the same isoform have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000205944	 This gene is a member of the DAZ gene family and is a candidate for the human Y-chromosomal azoospermia factor (AZF). Its expression is restricted to premeiotic germ cells, particularly in spermatogonia. It encodes an RNA-binding protein that is important for spermatogenesis. Four copies of this gene are found on chromosome Y within palindromic duplications; one pair of genes is part of the P2 palindrome and the second pair is part of the P1 palindrome. Each gene contains a 2.4 kb repeat including a 72-bp exon, called the DAZ repeat; the number of DAZ repeats is variable and there are several variations in the sequence of the DAZ repeat. Each copy of the gene also contains a 10.8 kb region that may be amplified; this region includes five exons that encode an RNA recognition motif (RRM) domain. This gene contains one copy of the 10.8 kb repeat. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000181163	 This gene encodes a phosphoprotein which moves between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The gene product is thought to be involved in several processes including regulation of the ARF/p53 pathway. A number of genes are fusion partners have been characterized, in particular the anaplastic lymphoma kinase gene on chromosome 2. Mutations in this gene are associated with acute myeloid leukemia. More than a dozen pseudogenes of this gene have been identified. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000197102	 Dyneins are a group of microtubule-activated ATPases that function as molecular motors. They are divided into two subgroups of axonemal and cytoplasmic dyneins. The cytoplasmic dyneins function in intracellular motility, including retrograde axonal transport, protein sorting, organelle movement, and spindle dynamics. Molecules of conventional cytoplasmic dynein are comprised of 2 heavy chain polypeptides and a number of intermediate and light chains.This gene encodes a member of the cytoplasmic dynein heavy chain family. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000128512	 This gene is a member of the dedicator of cytokinesis (DOCK) family and encodes a protein with a DHR-1 (CZH-1) domain, a DHR-2 (CZH-2) domain and an SH3 domain. This membrane-associated, cytoplasmic protein functions as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor and is involved in regulation of adherens junctions between cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with ovarian, prostate, glioma, and colorectal cancers. Alternatively spliced variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described, but only one has been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000003393	 The protein encoded by this gene contains an ATS1/RCC1-like domain, a RhoGEF domain, and a vacuolar protein sorting 9 (VPS9) domain, all of which are guanine-nucleotide exchange factors that activate members of the Ras superfamily of GTPases. The protein functions as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for the small GTPase RAB5. The protein localizes with RAB5 on early endosomal compartments, and functions as a modulator for endosomal dynamics. Mutations in this gene result in several forms of juvenile lateral sclerosis and infantile-onset ascending spastic paralysis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000108405	 The product of this gene belongs to the family of purinoceptors for ATP. This receptor functions as a ligand-gated ion channel with relatively high calcium permeability. Binding to ATP mediates synaptic transmission between neurons and from neurons to smooth muscle, being responsible, for example, for sympathetic vasoconstriction in small arteries, arterioles and vas deferens. Mouse studies suggest that this receptor is essential for normal male reproductive function. It is possible that the development of selective antagonists for this receptor may provide an effective non-hormonal male contraceptive pill. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182489	 This gene encodes a protein that is related to a component of the XK/Kell complex of the Kell blood group system. The encoded protein includes several transmembrane domains, is known to be exposed to the cell surface, and may function as a membrane transporter. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000229314	 This gene encodes a key acute phase plasma protein. Because of its increase due to acute inflammation, this protein is classified as an acute-phase reactant.  The specific function of this protein has not yet been determined; however, it may be involved in aspects of immunosuppression. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000185068	 This gene encodes a subunit of transcription/repair factor TFIIH, which functions in gene transcription and DNA repair. This protein stimulates ERCC3/XPB ATPase activity to trigger DNA opening during DNA repair, and is implicated in regulating cellular levels of TFIIH. Mutations in this gene result in trichothiodystrophy, complementation group A. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000074319	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a group of apparently inactive homologs of ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes. The gene product contains a coiled-coil domain that interacts with stathmin, a cytosolic phosphoprotein implicated in tumorigenesis. The protein may play a role in cell growth and differentiation and act as a negative growth regulator. In vitro steady-state expression of this tumor susceptibility gene appears to be important for maintenance of genomic stability and cell cycle regulation. Mutations and alternative splicing in this gene occur in high frequency in breast cancer and suggest that defects occur during breast cancer tumorigenesis and/or progression. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109424	 Mitochondrial uncoupling proteins (UCP) are members of the family of mitochondrial anion carrier proteins (MACP). UCPs separate oxidative phosphorylation from ATP synthesis with energy dissipated as heat, also referred to as the mitochondrial proton leak. UCPs facilitate the transfer of anions from the inner to the outer mitochondrial membrane and the return transfer of protons from the outer to the inner mitochondrial membrane. They also reduce the mitochondrial membrane potential in mammalian cells. Tissue specificity occurs for the different UCPs and the exact methods of how UCPs transfer H+/OH- are not known. UCPs contain the three homologous protein domains of MACPs. This gene is expressed only in brown adipose tissue, a specialized tissue which functions to produce heat. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000090534	 Megakaryocytopoiesis is the cellular development process that leads to platelet production. The protein encoded by this gene is a humoral growth factor that is necessary for megakaryocyte proliferation and maturation, as well as for thrombopoiesis. This protein is the ligand for MLP/C_MPL, the product of myeloproliferative leukemia virus oncogene. Mutations in this gene are the cause of thrombocythemia 1. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000137364	 This gene encodes the enzyme that metabolizes thiopurine drugs via S-adenosyl-L-methionine as the S-methyl donor and S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine as a byproduct. Thiopurine drugs such as 6-mercaptopurine are used as chemotherapeutic agents. Genetic polymorphisms that affect this enzymatic activity are correlated with variations in sensitivity and toxicity to such drugs within individuals. A pseudogene for this locus is located on chromosome 18q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105146	 This gene encodes a member of the Aurora subfamily of serine/threonine protein kinases. The encoded protein is a chromosomal passenger protein that forms complexes with Aurora-B and inner centromere proteins and may play a role in organizing microtubules in relation to centrosome/spindle function during mitosis. This gene is overexpressed in several cancer cell lines, suggesting an involvement in oncogenic signal transduction. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164458	 The protein encoded by this gene is an embryonic nuclear transcription factor that binds to a specific DNA element, the palindromic T-site. It binds through a region in its N-terminus, called the T-box, and effects transcription of genes required for mesoderm formation and differentiation. The protein is localized to notochord-derived cells. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000149418	 The protein encoded by this gene is an epithelial-derived, integral membrane serine protease. This protease forms a complex with the Kunitz-type serine protease inhibitor, HAI-1, and is found to be activated by sphingosine 1-phosphate. This protease has been shown to cleave and activate hepatocyte growth factor/scattering factor, and urokinase plasminogen activator, which suggest the function of this protease as an epithelial membrane activator for other proteases and latent growth factors. The expression of this protease has been associated with breast, colon, prostate, and ovarian tumors, which implicates its role in cancer invasion, and metastasis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000087586	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle-regulated kinase that appears to be involved in microtubule formation and/or stabilization at the spindle pole during chromosome segregation. The encoded protein is found at the centrosome in interphase cells and at the spindle poles in mitosis. This gene may play a role in tumor development and progression. A processed pseudogene of this gene has been found on chromosome 1, and an unprocessed pseudogene has been found on chromosome 10. Multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000019549	 This gene encodes a member of the Snail family of C2H2-type zinc finger transcription factors. The encoded protein acts as a transcriptional repressor that binds to E-box motifs and is also likely to repress E-cadherin transcription in breast carcinoma. This protein is involved in epithelial-mesenchymal transitions and has antiapoptotic activity. Mutations in this gene may be associated with sporatic cases of neural tube defects. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124343	 This gene encodes the XG blood group antigen, and is located at the pseudoautosomal boundary on the short (p) arm of chromosome X. The three 5' exons reside in the pseudoautosomal region and the remaining exons within the X-specific end. A truncated copy of this gene is found on the Y chromosome at the pseudoautosomal boundary. It is transcribed, but not expected to make a Y-chromosome specific gene product. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the XG*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000213088	 The protein encoded by this gene is a glycosylated membrane protein and a non-specific receptor for several chemokines. The encoded protein is the receptor for the human malarial parasites Plasmodium vivax and Plasmodium knowlesi. Polymorphisms in this gene are the basis of the Duffy blood group system. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the DARC*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000127914	 The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. Alternate splicing of this gene results in at least two isoforms that localize to the centrosome and the Golgi apparatus, and interact with numerous signaling proteins from multiple signal transduction pathways. These signaling proteins include type II protein kinase A, serine/threonine kinase protein kinase N, protein phosphatase 1, protein phosphatase 2a, protein kinase C-epsilon and phosphodiesterase 4D3. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000130598	 This gene encodes a fast-twitch skeletal muscle protein, a member of the troponin I gene family, and a component of the troponin complex including troponin T, troponin C and troponin I subunits. The troponin complex, along with tropomyosin, is responsible for the calcium-dependent regulation of striated muscle contraction. Mouse studies show that this component is also present in vascular smooth muscle and may play a role in regulation of smooth muscle function. In addition to muscle tissues, this protein is found in corneal epithelium, cartilage where it is an inhibitor of angiogenesis to inhibit tumor growth and metastasis, and mammary gland where it functions as a co-activator of estrogen receptor-related receptor alpha. This protein also suppresses tumor growth in human ovarian carcinoma. Mutations in this gene cause myopathy and distal arthrogryposis type 2B. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000198467	 This gene encodes beta-tropomyosin, a member of the actin filament binding protein family, and mainly expressed in slow, type 1 muscle fibers. Mutations in this gene can alter the expression of other sarcomeric tropomyosin proteins, and cause cap disease, nemaline myopathy and distal arthrogryposis syndromes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000160183	 This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the serine protease family. The encoded protein contains a serine protease domain, a transmembrane domain, an LDL receptor-like domain, and a scavenger receptor cysteine-rich domain. Serine proteases are known to be involved in a variety of biological processes, whose malfunction often leads to human diseases and disorders. This gene was identified by its association with both congenital and childhood onset autosomal recessive deafness. This gene is expressed in fetal cochlea and many other tissues, and is thought to be involved in the development and maintenance of the inner ear or the contents of the perilymph and endolymph. This gene was also identified as a tumor-associated gene that is overexpressed in ovarian tumors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000181585	 This gene encodes a transmembrane inner ear protein. Studies in mouse suggest that this gene is required for normal postnatal maturation of sensory hair cells in the cochlea, including correct development of stereocilia bundles. This gene is one of multiple genes responsible for recessive non-syndromic deafness (DFNB), also known as autosomal recessive nonsyndromic hearing loss (ARNSHL), the most common form of congenitally acquired inherited hearing impairment. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000155984	 The protein encoded by this gene is predicted to be a transmembrane protein, but this has not been experimentally determined. This gene is better known for localizing to the CpG island of the fragile site FRAXF. The 5-prime untranslated region of this gene contains a CGG trinucleotide repeat sequence that normally consists of 7-40 tandem CGG repeats but which can expand to greater than 300 repeats. Methylation of the CpG island leads to transcriptional silencing of this gene, but neither the silencing nor an expanded repeat region appear to manifest itself in a clear phenotypic manner. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000129667	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff in collaboration with Nazneen Rahman. The reference sequence was derived from AC015802.21. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000138297	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of a complex located in the inner mitochondrial membrane that mediates the transport of transit peptide-containing proteins across the membrane. Multiple transcript variants, one protein-coding and others not protein-coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000110887	 This gene encodes the peroxisomal enzyme D-amino acid oxidase. The enzyme is a flavoprotein which uses flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) as its prosthetic group. Its substrates include a wide variety of D-amino acids, but it is inactive on the naturally occurring L-amino acids. Its biological function is not known; it may act as a detoxifying agent which removes D-amino acids that accumulate during aging. In mice, it degrades D-serine, a co-agonist of the NMDA receptor. This gene may play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101901	 The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of a bipartite UDP-N-acetylglucosamine transferase. It heterodimerizes with asparagine-linked glycosylation 14 homolog to form a functional UDP-GlcNAc glycosyltransferase that catalyzes the second sugar addition of the highly conserved oligosaccharide precursor in endoplasmic reticulum N-linked glycosylation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000170262	 This gene encodes a melanocortin receptor-interacting protein. The encoded protein regulates trafficking and function of the melanocortin 2 receptor in the adrenal gland. The encoded protein can also modulate signaling of other melanocortin receptors. Mutations in this gene have been associated with familial glucocorticoid deficiency type 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000184292	 This intronless gene encodes a carcinoma-associated antigen. This antigen is a cell surface receptor that transduces calcium signals. Mutations of this gene have been associated with gelatinous drop-like corneal dystrophy.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000145623	 This gene encodes a member of the type I cytokine receptor family. The encoded protein heterodimerizes with interleukin 6 signal transducer to form the type II oncostatin M receptor and with interleukin 31 receptor A to form the interleukin 31 receptor, and thus transduces oncostatin M and interleukin 31 induced signaling events. Mutations in this gene have been associated with familial primary localized cutaneous amyloidosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000103522	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine receptor for interleukin 21 (IL21). It belongs to the type I cytokine receptors, and has been shown to form a heterodimeric receptor complex with the common gamma-chain, a receptor subunit also shared by the receptors for interleukin 2, 4, 7, 9, and 15. This receptor transduces the growth promoting signal of IL21, and is important for the proliferation and differentiation of T cells, B cells, and natural killer (NK) cells. The ligand binding of this receptor leads to the activation of multiple downstream signaling molecules, including JAK1, JAK3, STAT1, and STAT3. Knockout studies of a similar gene in mouse suggest a role for this gene in regulating immunoglobulin production. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000187140	 This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors which is characterized by a distinct forkhead domain. Mutations in this gene cause autoimmune susceptibility 1. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000125845	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGFB) superfamily. The encoded protein acts as a disulfide-linked homodimer and induces bone and cartilage formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000213983	 Adaptins are important components of clathrin-coated vesicles transporting ligand-receptor complexes from the plasma membrane or from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes. The adaptin family of proteins is compsed of four classes of molecules named alpha, beta-, beta prime- and gamma- adaptins. Adaptins, together with medium and small subunits, form a heterotetrameric complex called an adaptor, whose role is to promote the formation of clathrin-coated pits and vesicles. The protein encoded by this gene is a gamma-adaptin protein and it belongs to the adaptor complexes large subunits family. This protein along with the complex is thought to function at some trafficking step in the complex pathways between the trans-Golgi network and the cell surface. There are two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168924	 This gene encodes a protein that is localized to the inner mitochondrial membrane. The protein functions to maintain the mitochondrial tubular shapes and is required for normal mitochondrial morphology and cellular viability. Mutations in this gene cause Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome, a complex malformation syndrome caused by the deletion of parts of the distal short arm of chromosome 4. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 8, 15 and 19. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000215612	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that belongs to the H6 family of homeobox proteins. This protein can bind a 5'-CAAG-3' core DNA sequence, and it is involved in the development of craniofacial structures. Mutations in this gene cause oculoauricular syndrome, a disorder of the eye and external ear. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000117305	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the HMG-CoA lyase family. It is a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the final step of leucine degradation and plays a key role in ketone body formation. Mutations in this gene are associated with HMG-CoA lyase deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000130032	 This gene encodes a protein which contains a vitamin K-dependent carboxylation/gamma-carboxyglutamic domain. The encoded protein is a member of a family of vitamin K-dependent transmembrane proteins which contain a glutamate-rich extracellular domain. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000099331	 This gene encodes a member of the myosin family of actin-based molecular motor heavy chain proteins. The protein represents an unconventional myosin; it should not be confused with the conventional non-muscle myosin-9 (MYH9). The protein has four IQ motifs located in the neck domain that bind calmodulin, which serves as a light chain. The protein complex has a single-headed structure and exhibits processive movement on actin filaments toward the minus-end. The protein also has rho-GTPase activity. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with celiac disease and ulcerative colitis susceptibility. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000111276	 This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which shares a limited similarity with CDK inhibitor CDKN1A/p21. The encoded protein binds to and prevents the activation of cyclin E-CDK2 or cyclin D-CDK4 complexes, and thus controls the cell cycle progression at G1. The degradation of this protein, which is triggered by its CDK dependent phosphorylation and subsequent ubiquitination by SCF complexes, is required for the cellular transition from quiescence to the proliferative state. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000072133	 This gene encodes a member of ribosomal S6 kinase family, serine-threonine protein kinases which are regulated by growth factors. The encoded protein may be distinct from other members of this family, however, as studies suggest it is not growth factor dependent and may not participate in the same signaling pathways. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSGR0000169100	 This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier subfamily of solute carrier protein genes. The product of this gene functions as a gated pore that translocates ADP from the mitochondrial matrix into the cytoplasm. The protein is implicated in the function of the permability transition pore complex (PTPC), which regulates the release of mitochondrial products that induce apoptosis. The human genome contains several non-transcribed pseudogenes of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000005022	 This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier subfamily of solute carrier protein genes. The product of this gene functions as a gated pore that translocates ADP from the mitochondrial matrix into the cytoplasm. The protein forms a homodimer embedded in the inner mitochondria membrane. Suppressed expression of this gene has been shown to induce apoptosis and inhibit tumor growth. The human genome contains several non-transcribed pseudogenes of this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000147041	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the synaptotagmin-like (Slp) protein family, which contains a unique homology domain at the N-terminus, referred to as the Slp homology domain (SHD). The SHD functions as a binding site for Rab27A, which plays a role in protein transport. Expression of this gene is restricted to placenta and liver, suggesting that it might be involved in Rab27A-dependent membrane trafficking in specific tissues. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000189326	 This gene represents one of several duplicated family members that are located on the X chromosome. This gene family encodes proteins that play a role in spermiogenesis. These proteins represent a specific subgroup of cancer/testis-associated antigens, and they may be candidates for tumor vaccines. This family member belongs to a subgroup of related genes that are present in all primates and rats and mice, and thus, it represents one of the ancestral family members. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000184205	 This gene encodes a member of the testis-specific protein Y-encoded, TSPY-like/SET/nucleosome assembly protein-1 superfamily. The encoded protein is localized to the nucleolus where it functions in chromatin remodeling and as an inhibitor of cell-cycle progression. This protein may play a role in the suppression of tumor growth. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000134588	 This gene encodes a member of the ubiquitin-specific processing (UBP) family of proteases and is a deubiquitinating enzyme (DUB) with His and Cys domains. It is specifically expressed in testis tissue. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Sertoli cell-only syndrome and male infertility. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169679	 This gene encodes a kinase involved in spindle checkpoint function. The kinase functions in part by phosphorylating a member of the miotic checkpoint complex and activating the spindle checkpoint. Mutations in this gene have been associated with aneuploidy and several forms of cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131435	 This gene encodes a protein which may be involved in bone development. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to osteoporosis. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000118873	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the RAB3 protein family, members of which are involved in regulated exocytosis of neurotransmitters and hormones. This protein forms the Rab3 GTPase-activating complex with RAB3GAP1, where it constitutes the regulatory subunit, whereas the latter functions as the catalytic subunit. This gene has the highest level of expression in the brain, consistent with it having a key role in neurodevelopment. Mutations in this gene are associated with Martsolf syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000061337	 This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein that is ubiquitously expressed in normal tissues. In uveal melanomas, expression of this protein is silenced in rapidly metastasizing and metastatic tumor cells but has normal expression in slowly metastasizing or nonmetastasizing tumor cells. This protein may have a role in cell-cycle control by interacting with the Cdk1/cyclinB1 complex. This gene is located on chromosomal region 8p22. Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) in the 8p arm is a common characteristic of many types of cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000143575	 The protein encoded by this gene is known to associate with hematopoietic cell-specific Lyn substrate 1, a substrate of Src family tyrosine kinases. It also interacts with the product of the polycystic kidney disease 2 gene, mutations in which are associated with autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease, and with the F-actin-binding protein, cortactin. It was earlier thought that this gene product is mainly localized in the mitochondria, however, recent studies indicate it to be localized in the cell body. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal recessive severe congenital neutropenia, also known as Kostmann disease. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128591	 This gene encodes one of three related filamin genes, specifically gamma filamin. These filamin proteins crosslink actin filaments into orthogonal networks in cortical cytoplasm and participate in the anchoring of membrane proteins for the actin cytoskeleton. Three functional domains exist in filamin: an N-terminal filamentous actin-binding domain, a C-terminal self-association domain, and a membrane glycoprotein-binding domain. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198734	 This gene encodes an essential cofactor of the blood coagulation cascade. This factor circulates in plasma, and is converted to the active form by the release of the activation peptide by thrombin during coagulation. This generates a heavy chain and a light chain which are held together by calcium ions. The activated protein is a cofactor that participates with activated coagulation factor X to activate prothrombin to thrombin. Defects in this gene result in either an autosomal recessive hemorrhagic diathesis or an autosomal dominant form of thrombophilia, which is known as activated protein C resistance. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000110090	 The mitochondrial oxidation of long-chain fatty acids is initiated by the sequential action of carnitine palmitoyltransferase I (which is located in the outer membrane and is detergent-labile) and carnitine palmitoyltransferase II (which is located in the inner membrane and is detergent-stable), together with a carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase. CPT I is the key enzyme in the carnitine-dependent transport across the mitochondrial inner membrane and its deficiency results in a decreased rate of fatty acid beta-oxidation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000047457	 The protein encoded by this gene is a metalloprotein that binds most of the copper in plasma and is involved in the peroxidation of Fe(II)transferrin to Fe(III) transferrin. Mutations in this gene cause aceruloplasminemia, which results in iron accumulation and tissue damage, and is associated with diabetes and neurologic abnormalities. Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other not protein-coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000103227	 The protein encoded by this gene resides in the endoplasmic reticulum, and is involved in the maturation and transport of lipoprotein lipase through the secretory pathway. Mutations in this gene are associated with combined lipase deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000168434	 The protein encoded by this gene resides in the golgi, and constitutes one of the 8 subunits of the conserved oligomeric Golgi (COG) complex, which is required for normal golgi morphology and localization. Mutations in this gene are associated with the congenital disorder of glycosylation type IIe.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000069509	 This gene encodes a protein with a FUN14 superfamily domain. The function of the encoded protein is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000165164	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL590065.3. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000111713	 The protein encoded by this gene, liver glycogen synthase, catalyzes the rate-limiting step in the synthesis of glycogen - the transfer of a glucose molecule from UDP-glucose to a terminal branch of the glycogen molecule. Mutations in this gene cause glycogen storage disease type 0 (GSD-0) - a rare type of early childhood fasting hypoglycemia with decreased liver glycogen content. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000144668	 This gene encodes an alpha integrin. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane glycoproteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain that mediate cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion. The protein encoded by this gene, when bound to the beta 1 chain, forms an integrin that is a receptor for VCAM1, cytotactin and osteopontin. Expression of this gene has been found to be upregulated in small cell lung cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164442	 The protein encoded by this gene inhibits transactivation of HIF1A-induced genes by competing with binding of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha to p300-CH1. Mutations in this gene are a cause of cardiac septal defects. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000070018	 This gene encodes a member of the low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor gene family. LDL receptors are transmembrane cell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of lipoprotein and protein ligands. The protein encoded by this gene functions as a receptor or, with Frizzled, a co-receptor for Wnt and thereby transmits the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling cascade. Through its interaction with the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling cascade this gene plays a role in the regulation of cell differentiation, proliferation, and migration and the development of many cancer types. This protein undergoes gamma-secretase dependent RIP- (regulated intramembrane proteolysis) processing but the precise locations of the cleavage sites have not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000183434	 This gene encodes a member of the DP family of transcription factors. These factors heterodimerize with E2F proteins to enhance their DNA-binding activity and promote transcription from E2F target genes. This protein functions as a negative regulator and inhibits the DNA binding and transcriptional activities of E2F factors.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000123594	 This intronless gene may be a pseudogene (PMID:11450850). This gene is similar to the multi-exon gene which encodes ataxin 3 and contains a coding region which could encode a protein similar to ataxin 3. Mutations in the gene encoding ataxin 3 are associated with Machado-Joseph disease. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000138741	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein that can form a non-selective channel permeable to calcium and other cations. The encoded protein appears to be induced to form channels by a receptor tyrosine kinase-activated phosphatidylinositol second messenger system and also by depletion of intracellular calcium stores. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000224975	 X chromosome inactivation provides dosage compensation for the expression level of X-linked genes from the single X in males and the two in females. This X chromosome gene is intronless and was identified because its transcription escapes X inactivation in females. This gene does not make a protein.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000123165	 This gene encodes a protein related to the cytoskeletal protein beta-actin. This protein is a major component of the calyx in the perinuclear theca of mammalian sperm heads, and it therefore likely functions in spermatid formation. This gene is intronless and is similar to a related gene located on chromosome 1. A related pseudogene has also been identified approximately 75 kb downstream of this gene on chromosome X. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000102174	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane endopeptidase that belongs to the type II integral membrane zinc-dependent endopeptidase family. The protein is thought to be involved in bone and dentin mineralization and renal phosphate reabsorption. Mutations in this gene cause X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162510	 This gene encodes a member of von Willebrand factor A domain containing protein family. This family of proteins are thought to be involved in the formation of filamentous networks in the extracellular matrices of various tissues. Mutations of this gene have been associated with variety of inherited chondrodysplasias. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104689	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor is activated by tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TNFSF10/TRAIL), and thus transduces cell death signal and induces cell apoptosis. Studies with FADD-deficient mice suggested that FADD, a death domain containing adaptor protein, is required for the apoptosis mediated by this protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000067992	 The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial multienzyme complex that catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2). It provides the primary link between glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, and thus is one of the major enzymes responsible for the regulation of glucose metabolism. The enzymatic activity of PDH is regulated by a phosphorylation/dephosphorylation cycle, and phosphorylation results in inactivation of PDH. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the three pyruvate dehydrogenase kinases that inhibits the PDH complex by phosphorylation of the E1 alpha subunit. This gene is predominantly expressed in the heart and skeletal muscles. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000160131	 This gene encodes a chaperone for assembly of lysosomal vacuolar ATPase.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000132024	 This gene encodes a transcriptional repressor that binds to a conserved 14-bp 5'-repressor element and regulates expression of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) receptor 1A gene in neuronal cells. The DNA binding and transcriptional repressor activities of the protein are inhibited by calcium. A mutation in this gene results in nonsyndromic mental retardation-3.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000015520	 The protein encoded by this gene is a multi-pass membrane protein. It contains a conserved N-terminal Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1) domain and a putative sterol-sensing domain (SSD) which includes a YQRL motif functioning as a plasma membrane to trans-Golgi network transport signal in other proteins. This protein takes up free cholesterol into cells through vesicular endocytosis and plays a critical role in the absorption of intestinal cholesterol. It also has the ability to transport alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E). The drug ezetimibe targets this protein and inhibits the absorption of intestinal cholesterol and alpha-tocopherol. In addition, this protein may play a critical role in regulating lipid metabolism. Polymorphic variations in this gene are associated with plasma total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and coronary heart disease (CHD) risk. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000039139	 This gene encodes a dynein protein, which is part of a microtubule-associated motor protein complex consisting of heavy, light, and intermediate chains. This protein is an axonemal heavy chain dynein. It functions as a force-generating protein with ATPase activity, whereby the release of ADP is thought to produce the force-producing power stroke. Mutations in this gene cause primary ciliary dyskinesia type 3, as well as Kartagener syndrome, which are both diseases due to ciliary defects. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000091513	 This gene encodes a glycoprotein with an approximate molecular weight of 76.5 kDa. It is thought to have been created as a result of an ancient gene duplication event that led to generation of homologous C and N-terminal domains each of which binds one ion of ferric iron. The function of this protein is to transport iron from the intestine, reticuloendothelial system, and liver parenchymal cells to all proliferating cells in the body. This protein may also have a physiologic role as granulocyte/pollen-binding protein (GPBP) involved in the removal of certain organic matter and allergens from serum. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000110400	 This gene encodes an adhesion protein that plays a role in the organization of adherens junctions and tight junctions in epithelial and endothelial cells. The protein is a calcium(2+)-independent cell-cell adhesion molecule that belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily and has 3 extracellular immunoglobulin-like loops, a single transmembrane domain (in some isoforms), and a cytoplasmic region. This protein acts as a receptor for glycoprotein D (gD) of herpes simplex viruses 1 and 2 (HSV-1, HSV-2), and pseudorabies virus (PRV) and mediates viral entry into epithelial and neuronal cells. Mutations in this gene cause cleft lip and palate/ectodermal dysplasia 1 syndrome (CLPED1) as well as non-syndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate (CL/P). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding proteins with distinct C-termini. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000125384	 This gene encodes a receptor for prostaglandin E2, a metabolite of arachidonic acid which has different biologic activities in a wide range of tissues. Mutations in this gene are associated with aspirin-induced susceptibility to asthma. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000130595	 The binding of Ca(2+) to the trimeric troponin complex initiates the process of muscle contraction. Increased Ca(2+) concentrations produce a conformational change in the troponin complex that is transmitted to tropomyosin dimers situated along actin filaments. The altered conformation permits increased interaction between a myosin head and an actin filament which, ultimately, produces a muscle contraction. The troponin complex has protein subunits C, I, and T. Subunit C binds Ca(2+) and subunit I binds to actin and inhibits actin-myosin interaction. Subunit T binds the troponin complex to the tropomyosin complex and is also required for Ca(2+)-mediated activation of actomyosin ATPase activity. There are 3 different troponin T genes that encode tissue-specific isoforms of subunit T for fast skeletal-, slow skeletal-, and cardiac-muscle. This gene encodes fast skeletal troponin T protein; also known as troponin T type 3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding additional distinct troponin T type 3 isoforms. A developmentally regulated switch between fetal/neonatal and adult troponin T type 3 isoforms occurs. Additional splice variants have been described but their biological validity has not been established. Mutations in this gene may cause distal arthrogryposis multiplex congenita type 2B (DA2B). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000157933	 This gene encodes the nuclear protooncogene protein homolog of avian sarcoma viral (v-ski) oncogene. It functions as a repressor of TGF-beta signaling, and may play a role in neural tube development and muscle differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000105610	 This gene encodes a hematopoietic-specific transcription factor that induces high-level expression of adult beta-globin and other erythroid genes. The zinc-finger protein binds to the DNA sequence CCACACCCT found in the beta hemoglobin promoter. Heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in this gene result in the dominant In(Lu) blood phenotype. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000165970	 This gene encodes a sodium- and chloride-dependent glycine neurotransmitter transporter. This integral membrane glycoprotein is responsible for the clearance of extracellular glycine during glycine-mediated neurotransmission. This protein is found in glycinergic axons and maintains a high presynaptic pool of neurotransmitter at glycinergic synapses. Mutations in this gene cause hyperekplexia; a heterogenous neurological disorder characterized by exaggerated startle responses and neonatal apnea. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000112562	 This gene encodes a member of the SPARC family (secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine/osteonectin/BM-40), which are highly expressed during embryogenesis and wound healing. The gene product is a matricellular protein which promotes matrix assembly and can stimulate endothelial cell proliferation and migration, as well as angiogenic activity. Associated with pulmonary function, this secretory gene product contains a Kazal domain, two thymoglobulin type-1 domains, and two EF-hand calcium-binding domains. The encoded protein may serve as a target for controlling angiogenesis in tumor growth and myocardial ischemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000164591	 The protein encoded by this gene is specifically expressed in the skeletal muscle, and belongs to the myozenin family. Members of this family function as calcineurin-interacting proteins that help tether calcineurin to the sarcomere of cardiac and skeletal muscle. They play an important role in modulation of calcineurin signaling. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000149483	 This gene encodes a multi-pass transmembrane protein. Reduced expression of this gene in mouse fibroblasts causes short cilia and failure of ciliogenesis. Expression of this gene is tightly coordinated with expression of the neighboring gene TMEM216. Mutations in this gene are associated with the autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorder Joubert Syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000138160	 This gene encodes a motor protein that belongs to the kinesin-like protein family. Members of this protein family are known to be involved in various kinds of spindle dynamics. The function of this gene product includes chromosome positioning, centrosome separation and establishing a bipolar spindle during cell mitosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100024	 This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the CN hydrolase family. Beta-ureidopropionase catalyzes the last step in the pyrimidine degradation pathway. The pyrimidine bases uracil and thymine are degraded via the consecutive action of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DHPDH), dihydropyrimidinase (DHP) and beta-ureidopropionase (UP) to beta-alanine and beta-aminoisobutyric acid, respectively. UP deficiencies are associated with N-carbamyl-beta-amino aciduria and may lead to abnormalities in neurological activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131018	 This gene encodes a spectrin repeat containing protein expressed in skeletal and smooth muscle, and peripheral blood lymphocytes, that localizes to the nuclear membrane. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive spinocerebellar ataxia 8, also referred to as autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia type 1 or recessive ataxia of Beauce. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187045	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type II transmembrane serine proteinase that is found attached to the cell surface. The encoded protein may be involved in matrix remodeling processes in the liver. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138378	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT family of transcription factors. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers that translocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators. This protein is essential for mediating responses to IL12 in lymphocytes, and regulating the differentiation of T helper cells. Mutations in this gene may be associated with systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000169575	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily and is expressed selectively at the early stages of B cell development, namely, in proB and early preB cells. This gene encodes the iota polypeptide chain that is associated with the Ig-mu chain to form a molecular complex which is expressed on the surface of pre-B cells. The complex is thought to regulate Ig gene rearrangements in the early steps of B-cell differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000154556	 Arg and c-Abl represent the mammalian members of the Abelson family of non-receptor protein-tyrosine kinases. They interact with the Arg/Abl binding proteins via the SH3 domains present in the carboxy end of the latter group of proteins. This gene encodes the sorbin and SH3 domain containing 2 protein. It has three C-terminal SH3 domains and an N-terminal sorbin homology (SoHo) domain that interacts with lipid raft proteins. The subcellular localization of this protein in epithelial and cardiac muscle cells suggests that it functions as an adapter protein to assemble signaling complexes in stress fibers, and that it is a potential link between Abl family kinases and the actin cytoskeleton. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123843	 This gene encodes a member of a superfamily of proteins composed predominantly of tandemly arrayed short consensus repeats of approximately 60 amino acids. A single, unique beta-chain encoded by this gene assembles with seven identical alpha-chains into the predominant isoform of C4b-binding protein, a multimeric protein that controls activation of the complement cascade through the classical pathway. C4b-binding protein has a regulatory role in the coagulation system also, mediated through the beta-chain binding of protein S, a vitamin K-dependent protein that serves as a cofactor of activated protein C. The genes encoding both alpha and beta chains are located adjacent to each other on human chromosome 1 in the regulator of complement activation gene cluster. Alternative splicing gives rise to multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183087	 This gene product is a gamma-carboxyglutamic acid (Gla)-containing protein thought to be involved in the stimulation of cell proliferation, and may play a role in thrombosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000168288	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that is involved in an early step of vitamin B12 metabolism. Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) is essential for normal development and survival in humans. Mutations in this gene cause methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria type cblD (MMADHC), a disorder of cobalamin metabolism that is characterized by decreased levels of the coenzymes adenosylcobalamin and methylcobalamin. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 11 and X.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000092621	 This gene encodes the enzyme which is involved in the early steps of L-serine synthesis in animal cells. L-serine is required for D-serine and other amino acid synthesis. The enzyme requires NAD/NADH as a cofactor and forms homotetramers for activity. Mutations in this gene have been found in a family with congenital microcephaly, psychomotor retardation and other symptoms. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, however the full-length nature of most are not known. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000172554	 This gene encodes a protein belonging to the syntrophin family. Syntrophins are cytoplasmic peripheral membrane proteins that bind to components of mechanosenstive sodium channels and the extreme carboxy-terminal domain of dystrophin and dystrophin-related proteins. The PDZ domain of this protein product interacts with a protein component of a mechanosensitive sodium channel that affects channel gating. Absence or reduction of this protein product has been associated with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. There is evidence of alternative splicing yet the full-length nature of these variants has not been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178188	 This gene encodes a member of the SH2-domain containing mediators family. The encoded protein mediates activation of various kinases and may function in cytokine and growth factor receptor signaling and cellular transformation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000163629	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP is a large intracellular protein. It has a catalytic PTP domain at its C-terminus and two major structural domains: a region with five PDZ domains and a FERM domain that binds to plasma membrane and cytoskeletal elements. This PTP was found to interact with, and dephosphorylate, Fas receptor and IkappaBalpha through the PDZ domains. This suggests it has a role in Fas mediated programmed cell death. This PTP was also shown to interact with GTPase-activating protein, and thus may function as a regulator of Rho signaling pathways. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode distinct proteins, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000110911	 This gene encodes a member of the solute carrier family 11 protein family. The product of this gene transports divalent metals and is involved in iron absorption. Mutations in this gene are associated with hypochromic microcytic anemia with iron overload. A related solute carrier family 11 protein gene is located on chromosome 2. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000130037	 Potassium channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ino channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes - shaker, shaw, shab, and shal - have been identified in Drosophila, and each has been shown to have human homolog(s). This gene encodes a member of the potassium channel, voltage-gated, shaker-related subfamily. This member contains six membrane-spanning domains with a shaker-type repeat in the fourth segment. It belongs to the delayed rectifier class, the function of which could restore the resting membrane potential of beta cells after depolarization and thereby contribute to the regulation of insulin secretion. This gene is intronless, and the gene is clustered with genes KCNA1 and KCNA6 on chromosome 12. Defects in this gene are a cause of familial atrial fibrillation type 7 (ATFB7). [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000130985	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the first step in ubiquitin conjugation to mark cellular proteins for degradation. This gene complements an X-linked mouse temperature-sensitive defect in DNA synthesis, and thus may function in DNA repair. It is part of a gene cluster on chromosome Xp11.23. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000156298	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein and may have a role in the control of neurite outgrowth. It is known to complex with integrins. This gene is associated with X-linked mental retardation and neuropsychiatric diseases such as Huntington's chorea, fragile X syndrome and myotonic dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147383	 The protein encoded by this gene is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum and is involved in cholesterol biosynthesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with CHILD syndrome, which is a X-linked dominant disorder of lipid metabolism with disturbed cholesterol biosynthesis, and typically lethal in males. Alternatively spliced transcript variants with differing 5' UTR have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183098	 The glypicans comprise a family of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored heparan sulfate proteoglycans, and they have been implicated in the control of cell growth and cell division. The glypican encoded by this gene is a putative cell surface coreceptor for growth factors, extracellular matrix proteins, proteases and anti-proteases. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000042088	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in repairing stalled topoisomerase I-DNA complexes by catalyzing the hydrolysis of the phosphodiester bond between the tyrosine residue of topoisomerase I and the 3-prime phosphate of DNA. This protein may also remove glycolate from single-stranded DNA containing 3-prime phosphoglycolate, suggesting a role in repair of free-radical mediated DNA double-strand breaks. This gene is a member of the phospholipase D family and contains two PLD phosphodiesterase domains. Mutations in this gene are associated with the disease spinocerebellar ataxia with axonal neuropathy (SCAN1). While several transcript variants may exist for this gene, the full-length natures of only two have been described to date. These two represent the major variants of this gene and encode the same isoform. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132780	 This gene encodes a H1 histone binding protein that is involved in transporting histones into the nucleus of dividing cells. Multiple isoforms are encoded by transcript variants of this gene. The somatic form is expressed in all mitotic cells, is localized to the nucleus, and is coupled to the cell cycle. The testicular form is expressed in embryonic tissues, tumor cells, and the testis. In male germ cells, this protein is localized to the cytoplasm of primary spermatocytes, the nucleus of spermatids, and the periacrosomal region of mature spermatozoa. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114670	 This gene encodes a member of the never in mitosis gene A family of kinases. The encoded protein localizes to the nucleoli, and may function with NEK2A in the S-phase checkpoint. The encoded protein appears to play roles in DNA replication and response to genotoxic stress. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000167996	 This gene encodes the heavy subunit of ferritin, the major intracellular iron storage protein in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. It is composed of 24 subunits of the heavy and light ferritin chains. Variation in ferritin subunit composition may affect the rates of iron uptake and release in different tissues. A major function of ferritin is the storage of iron in a soluble and nontoxic state. Defects in ferritin proteins are associated with several neurodegenerative diseases. This gene has multiple pseudogenes. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157911	 This gene encodes a protein involved in import of peroxisomal matrix proteins. This protein localizes to the peroxisomal membrane. Mutations in this gene result in phenotypes within the Zellweger spectrum of peroxisomal biogenesis disorders, ranging from neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy to Zellweger syndrome. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164190	 This gene encodes the homolog of the Drosophila melanogaster Nipped-B gene product and fungal Scc2-type sister chromatid cohesion proteins. The Drosophila protein facilitates enhancer-promoter communication of remote enhancers and plays a role in developmental regulation. It is also homologous to a family of chromosomal adherins with broad roles in sister chromatid cohesion, chromosome condensation, and DNA repair. The human protein has a bipartite nuclear targeting sequence and a putative HEAT repeat. Condensins, cohesins and other complexes with chromosome-related functions also contain HEAT repeats. Mutations in this gene result in Cornelia de Lange syndrome, a disorder characterized by dysmorphic facial features, growth delay, limb reduction defects, and mental retardation. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000127980	 This gene encodes a member of the AAA ATPase family, a large group of ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities. This protein is cytoplasmic but is often anchored to a peroxisomal membrane where it forms a heteromeric complex and plays a role in the import of proteins into peroxisomes and peroxisome biogenesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with complementation group 1 peroxisomal disorders such as neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy, infantile Refsum disease, and Zellweger syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128626	 Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S12P family. The encoded protein is a key component of the ribosomal small subunit and controls the decoding fidelity and susceptibility to aminoglycoside antibiotics. The gene for mitochondrial seryl-tRNA synthetase is located upstream and adjacent to this gene, and both genes are possible candidates for the autosomal dominant deafness gene (DFNA4). Splice variants that differ in the 5' UTR have been found for this gene; all three variants encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163631	 Albumin is a soluble, monomeric protein which comprises about one-half of the blood serum protein. Albumin functions primarily as a carrier protein for steroids, fatty acids, and thyroid hormones and plays a role in stabilizing extracellular fluid volume. Albumin is a globular unglycosylated serum protein of molecular weight 65,000. Albumin is synthesized in the liver as preproalbumin which has an N-terminal peptide that is removed before the nascent protein is released from the rough endoplasmic reticulum. The product, proalbumin, is in turn cleaved in the Golgi vesicles to produce the secreted albumin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000008128	 This gene encodes a member of the p34Cdc2 protein kinase family. p34Cdc2 kinase family members are known to be essential for eukaryotic cell cycle control. This gene is in close proximity to CDC2L1, a nearly identical gene in the same chromosomal region. The gene loci including this gene, CDC2L1, as well as metalloprotease MMP21/22, consist of two identical, tandemly linked genomic regions, which are thought to be a part of the larger region that has been duplicated. This gene and CDC2L1 were shown to be deleted or altered frequently in neuroblastoma with amplified MYCN genes. The protein kinase encoded by this gene could be cleaved by caspases and was demonstrated to play roles in cell apoptosis. Many transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene, but the full-length nature of only two have been determined so far. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197616	 Cardiac muscle myosin is a hexamer consisting of two heavy chain subunits, two light chain subunits, and two regulatory subunits. This gene encodes the alpha heavy chain subunit of cardiac myosin. The gene is located 4kb downstream of the gene encoding the beta heavy chain subunit of cardiac myosin. Mutations in this gene cause familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and atrial septal defect 3. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000185909	 This gene encodes a protein which forms a distinct beta-propeller protein structure of kelch domains allowing for protein-protein interactions. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Hodgkin lymphoma. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000085276	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator and oncoprotein that may be involved in hematopoiesis, apoptosis, development, and cell differentiation and proliferation. The encoded protein can interact with CTBP1, SMAD3, CREBBP, KAT2B, MAPK8, and MAPK9. This gene can undergo translocation with the AML1 gene, resulting in overexpression of this gene and the onset of leukemia. Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000143140	 This gene is a member of the connexin gene family. The encoded protein is a component of gap junctions, which are composed of arrays of intercellular channels that provide a route for the diffusion of low molecular weight materials from cell to cell. Mutations in this gene may be associated with atrial fibrillation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same isoform have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128973	 This gene is one of eight which have been associated with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL). Also referred to as Batten disease, NCL comprises a class of autosomal recessive, neurodegenerative disorders affecting children. The genes responsible likely encode proteins involved in the degradation of post-translationally modified proteins in lysosomes. The primary defect in NCL disorders is thought to be associated with lysosomal storage function. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000011021	 This gene encodes a member of the voltage-dependent chloride channel protein family. Members of this family can function as either chloride channels or antiporters. This protein is primarily localized to late endosomes and functions as a chloride/proton antiporter. Alternate splicing results in both coding and non-coding variants. Additional alternately spliced variants have been described but their full-length structure is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000204217	 This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptor family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. The ligands of this receptor are BMPs, which are members of the TGF-beta superfamily. BMPs are involved in endochondral bone formation and embryogenesis. These proteins transduce their signals through the formation of heteromeric complexes of two different types of serine (threonine) kinase receptors: type I receptors of about 50-55 kD and type II receptors of about 70-80 kD. Type II receptors bind ligands in the absence of type I receptors, but they require their respective type I receptors for signaling, whereas type I receptors require their respective type II receptors for ligand binding. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary pulmonary hypertension, both familial and fenfluramine-associated, and with pulmonary venoocclusive disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170577	 This gene is a member of the vertebrate gene family which encode proteins homologous to the Drosophila 'sine oculis' homeobox protein. The encoded protein is a transcription factor which, like other members of this gene family, may be involved in limb or eye development. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000176165	 This locus encodes a member of the forked-head transcription factor family. The encoded protein, which functions as a repressor, may play a role in brain development. Mutations at this locus have been associated with Rett syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000138771	 This gene encodes a PDZ-domain-containing protein that belongs to a family of Shroom-related proteins. This protein may be involved in regulating cell shape in certain tissues. A similar protein in mice is required for proper neurulation. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000134574	 This gene encodes a protein that is necessary for the repair of ultraviolet light-damaged DNA. This protein is the smaller subunit of a heterodimeric protein complex that participates in nucleotide excision repair, and this complex mediates the ubiquitylation of histones H3 and H4, which facilitates the cellular response to DNA damage. This subunit appears to be required for DNA binding. Mutations in this gene cause xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group E, a recessive disease that is characterized by an increased sensitivity to UV light and a high predisposition for skin cancer development, in some cases accompanied by neurological abnormalities. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124762	 This gene encodes a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. The encoded protein binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclin-CDK2 or -CDK4 complexes, and thus functions as a regulator of cell cycle progression at G1. The expression of this gene is tightly controlled by the tumor suppressor protein p53, through which this protein mediates the p53-dependent cell cycle G1 phase arrest in response to a variety of stress stimuli. This protein can interact with proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), a DNA polymerase accessory factor, and plays a regulatory role in S phase DNA replication and DNA damage repair. This protein was reported to be specifically cleaved by CASP3-like caspases, which thus leads to a dramatic activation of CDK2, and may be instrumental in the execution of apoptosis following caspase activation. Multiple alternatively spliced variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000134538	 This gene encodes a liver-specific member of the organic anion transporter family. The encoded protein is a transmembrane receptor that mediates the sodium-independent uptake of numerous endogenous compounds including bilirubin, 17-beta-glucuronosyl estradiol and leukotriene C4. This protein is also involved in the removal of drug compounds such as statins, bromosulfophthalein and rifampin from the blood into the hepatocytes. Polymorphisms in the gene encoding this protein are associated with impaired transporter function. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000196611	 Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. This gene encodes a secreted enzyme which breaks down the interstitial collagens, types I, II, and III. The gene is part of a cluster of MMP genes which localize to chromosome 11q22.3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000142676	 Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 60S subunit. The protein belongs to the L5P family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. The protein probably associates with the 5S rRNA. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000182899	 Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 60S subunit. The protein belongs to the L35AE family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. The rat protein has been shown to bind to both initiator and elongator tRNAs, and thus, it is located at the P site, or P and A sites, of the ribosome. Although this gene was originally mapped to chromosome 18, it has been established that it is located at 3q29-qter. Transcript variants utilizing alternative transcription initiation sites and alternative polyA signals exist. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112761	 This gene encodes a member of the WNT1 inducible signaling pathway (WISP) protein subfamily, which belongs to the connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) family. WNT1 is a member of a family of cysteine-rich, glycosylated signaling proteins that mediate diverse developmental processes. The CTGF family members are characterized by four conserved cysteine-rich domains: insulin-like growth factor-binding domain, von Willebrand factor type C module, thrombospondin domain and C-terminal cystine knot-like domain. This gene is overexpressed in colon tumors. It may be downstream in the WNT1 signaling pathway that is relevant to malignant transformation. Mutations of this gene are associated with progressive pseudorheumatoid dysplasia, an autosomal recessive skeletal disorder, indicating that the gene is essential for normal postnatal skeletal growth and cartilage homeostasis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119950	 Expression of the c-myc gene, which produces an oncogenic transcription factor, is tightly regulated in normal cells but is frequently deregulated in human cancers. The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional repressor thought to negatively regulate MYC function, and is therefore a potential tumor suppressor. This protein inhibits the transcriptional activity of MYC by competing for MAX, another basic helix-loop-helix protein that binds to MYC and is required for its function. Defects in this gene are frequently found in patients with prostate tumors. Three alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. Additional alternatively spliced transcripts may exist but the products of these transcripts have not been verified experimentally. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000224389	 This gene encodes the basic form of complement factor 4, part of the classical activation pathway. The protein is expressed as a single chain precursor which is proteolytically cleaved into a trimer of alpha, beta, and gamma chains prior to secretion. The trimer provides a surface for interaction between the antigen-antibody complex and other complement components. The alpha chain may be cleaved to release C4 anaphylatoxin, a mediator of local inflammation. Deficiency of this protein is associated with systemic lupus erythematosus. This gene localizes to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class III region on chromosome 6. Varying haplotypes of this gene cluster exist, such that individuals may have 1, 2, or 3 copies of this gene. In addition, this gene exists as a long form and a short form due to the presence or absence of a 6.4 kb endogenous HERV-K retrovirus in intron 9. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000118113	 Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. However, the enzyme encoded by this gene is stored in secondary granules within neutrophils and is activated by autolytic cleavage. Its function is degradation of type I, II and III collagens. The gene is part of a cluster of MMP genes which localize to chromosome 11q22.3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000149968	 Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. This gene encodes an enzyme which degrades fibronectin, laminin, collagens III, IV, IX, and X, and cartilage proteoglycans. The enzyme is thought to be involved in wound repair, progression of atherosclerosis, and tumor initiation. The gene is part of a cluster of MMP genes which localize to chromosome 11q22.3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183770	 This gene encodes a forkhead transcription factor. The protein contains a fork-head DNA-binding domain and may play a role in ovarian development and function. Mutations in this gene are a cause of blepharophimosis syndrome and premature ovarian failure 3. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000166866	 This gene encodes a member of the myosin superfamily. The protein represents an unconventional myosin; it should not be confused with the conventional skeletal muscle myosin-1 (MYH1). Unconventional myosins contain the basic domains characteristic of conventional myosins and are further distinguished from class members by their tail domains. They function as actin-based molecular motors. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal dominant deafness. Alternatively spliced variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000136160	 The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled receptor which activates a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Its ligand, endothelin, consists of a family of three potent vasoactive peptides: ET1, ET2, and ET3. Studies suggest that the multigenic disorder, Hirschsprung disease type 2, is due to mutations in the endothelin receptor type B gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000187098	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that contains both basic helix-loop-helix and leucine zipper structural features. It regulates the differentiation and development of melanocytes retinal pigment epithelium and is also responsible for pigment cell-specific transcription of the melanogenesis enzyme genes. Heterozygous mutations in the this gene cause auditory-pigmentary syndromes, such as Waardenburg syndrome type 2 and Tietz syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135903	 This gene is a member of the paired box (PAX) family of transcription factors. Members of the PAX family typically contain a paired box domain and a paired-type homeodomain. These genes play critical roles during fetal development. Mutations in paired box gene 3 are associated with Waardenburg syndrome, craniofacial-deafness-hand syndrome, and alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. The translocation t(2;13)(q35;q14), which represents a fusion between PAX3 and the forkhead gene, is a frequent finding in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. Alternative splicing results in transcripts encoding isoforms with different C-termini. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109927	 The tectorial membrane is an extracellular matrix of the inner ear that contacts the stereocilia bundles of specialized sensory hair cells. Sound induces movement of these hair cells relative to the tectorial membrane, deflects the stereocilia, and leads to fluctuations in hair-cell membrane potential, transducing sound into electrical signals. Alpha-tectorin is one of the major noncollagenous components of the tectorial membrane.  Mutations in the TECTA gene have been shown to be responsible for autosomal dominant nonsyndromic hearing impairment and a recessive form of sensorineural pre-lingual non-syndromic deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000091536	 This gene encodes an unconventional myosin. This protein differs from other myosins in that it has a long N-terminal extension preceding the conserved motor domain. Studies in mice suggest that this protein is necessary for actin organization in the hair cells of the cochlea. Mutations in this gene have been associated with profound, congenital, neurosensory, nonsyndromal deafness. This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. Read-through transcripts containing an upstream gene and this gene have been identified, but they are not thought to encode a fusion protein. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their full length sequences have not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000242866	 This gene encodes a protein that is associated with the hair bundle of the sensory hair cells in the inner ear. The hair bundle is composed of stiff microvilli called stereocilia and is involved with mechanoreception of sound waves. This gene is part of a tandem duplication on chromosome 15; the second copy is a pseudogene. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133063	 Chitotriosidase is secreted by activated human macrophages and is markedly elevated in plasma of Gaucher disease patients. The expression of chitotriosidase occurs only at a late stage of differentiation of monocytes to activated macrophages in culture. Human macrophages can synthesize a functional chitotriosidase, a highly conserved enzyme with a strongly regulated expression. This enzyme may play a role in the degradation of chitin-containing pathogens. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000107537	 This gene is a member of the PhyH family and encodes a peroxisomal protein that is involved in the alpha-oxidation of 3-methyl branched fatty acids. Specifically, this protein converts phytanoyl-CoA to 2-hydroxyphytanoyl-CoA. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Refsum disease (RD) and deficient protein activity has been associated with Zellweger syndrome and rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126562	 This gene encodes a member of the WNK family of serine-threonine protein kinases. The kinase is part of the tight junction complex in kidney cells, and regulates the balance between NaCl reabsorption and K(+) secretion. The kinase regulates the activities of several types of ion channels, cotransporters, and exchangers involved in electrolyte flux in epithelial cells. Mutations in this gene result in pseudohypoaldosteronism type IIB.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000144455	 This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of sulfate esters by oxidizing a cysteine residue in the substrate sulfatase to an active site 3-oxoalanine residue, which is also known as C-alpha-formylglycine. Mutations in this gene cause multiple sulfatase deficiency, a lysosomal storage disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000138083	 This gene encodes a member of the sine oculis homeobox transcription factor family. The encoded protein plays a role in eye development. Mutations in this gene have been associated with holoprosencephaly type 2. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000102387	 This gene is similar to a mouse gene that encodes a TATA box binding protein-associated factor, and shows testis-specific expression. The encoded protein could be a spermatogenesis-specific component of the DNA-binding general transcription factor complex TFIID. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000133742	 Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. CA1 is closely linked to CA2 and CA3 genes on chromosome 8, and it encodes a cytosolic protein which is found at the highest level in erythrocytes. Variants of this gene have been described in some populations. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. Transcript variants of CA1 utilizing alternative polyA_sites have been described in literature. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000108055	 This gene belongs to the SMC3 subfamily of SMC proteins. The encoded protein occurs in certain cell types as either an intracellular, nuclear protein or a secreted protein. The nuclear form, known as structural maintenance of chromosomes 3, is a component of the multimeric cohesin complex that holds together sister chromatids during mitosis, enabling proper chromosome segregation. Post-translational modification of the encoded protein by the addition of chondroitin sulfate chains gives rise to the secreted proteoglycan bamacan, an abundant basement membrane protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000142867	 This gene was identified by its translocation in a case of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma. The protein encoded by this gene contains a caspase recruitment domain (CARD), and has been shown to induce apoptosis and to activate NF-kappaB. This protein is reported to interact with other CARD domain containing proteins including CARD9, 10, 11 and 14, which are thought to function as upstream regulators in NF-kappaB signaling. This protein is found to form a complex with MALT1, a protein encoded by another gene known to be translocated in MALT lymphoma. MALT1 and this protein are thought to synergize in the activation of NF-kappaB, and the deregulation of either of them may contribute to the same pathogenetic process that leads to the malignancy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138615	 Major alterations in the composition of the cartilage extracellular matrix occur in joint disease, such as osteoarthrosis. This gene encodes the cartilage intermediate layer protein (CILP), which increases in early osteoarthrosis cartilage. The encoded protein was thought to encode a protein precursor for two different proteins; an N-terminal CILP and a C-terminal homolog of NTPPHase, however, later studies identified no nucleotide pyrophosphatase phosphodiesterase (NPP) activity. The full-length and the N-terminal domain of this protein was shown to function as an IGF-1 antagonist. An allelic variant of this gene has been associated with lumbar disc disease. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000172156	 This gene is one of several Cys-Cys (CC) cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene displays chemotactic activity for eosinophils, but not mononuclear cells or neutrophils. This eosinophil specific chemokine assumed to be involved in eosinophilic inflammatory diseases such as atopic dermatitis, allergic rhinitis, asthma and parasitic infections. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116171	 This gene encodes two proteins: sterol carrier protein X (SCPx) and sterol carrier protein 2 (SCP2), as a result of transcription initiation from 2 independently regulated promoters. The transcript initiated from the proximal promoter encodes the longer SCPx protein, and the transcript initiated from the distal promoter encodes the shorter SCP2 protein, with the 2 proteins sharing a common C-terminus. Evidence suggests that the SCPx protein is a peroxisome-associated thiolase that is involved in the oxidation of branched chain fatty acids, while the SCP2 protein is thought to be an intracellular lipid transfer protein. This gene is highly expressed in organs involved in lipid metabolism, and may play a role in Zellweger syndrome, in which cells are deficient in peroxisomes and have impaired bile acid synthesis. Alternative splicing of this gene produces multiple transcript variants, some encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000153201	 RAN is a small GTP-binding protein of the RAS superfamily that is associated with the nuclear membrane and is thought to control a variety of cellular functions through its interactions with other proteins. This gene encodes a very large RAN-binding protein that immunolocalizes to the nuclear pore complex. The protein is a giant scaffold and mosaic cyclophilin-related nucleoporin implicated in the Ran-GTPase cycle. The encoded protein directly interacts with the E2 enzyme UBC9 and strongly enhances SUMO1 transfer from UBC9 to the SUMO1 target SP100. These findings place sumoylation at the cytoplasmic filaments of the nuclear pore complex and suggest that, for some substrates, modification and nuclear import are linked events. This gene is partially duplicated in a gene cluster that lies in a hot spot for recombination on chromosome 2q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000087470	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dynamin superfamily of GTPases. Members of the dynamin-related subfamily, including the S. cerevisiae proteins Dnm1 and Vps1, contain the N-terminal tripartite GTPase domain but do not have the pleckstrin homology or proline-rich domains. This protein establishes mitochondrial morphology through a role in distributing mitochondrial tubules throughout the cytoplasm. The gene has 3 alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms. These transcripts are alternatively polyadenylated. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112365	 This gene encodes a protein similar to a protein in rodents which is induced by bone morphogenic protein 2 in vitro. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000134371	 This gene encodes a tumor suppressor that is involved in transcriptional and post-transcriptional control pathways. The protein is a component of the the PAF protein complex, which associates with the RNA polymerase II subunit POLR2A and with a histone methyltransferase complex. This protein appears to facilitate the association of 3' mRNA processing factors with actively-transcribed chromatin. Mutations in this gene have been linked to hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome, familial isolated hyperparathyroidism, and parathyroid carcinoma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000007933	 Flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMO) are an important class of drug-metabolizing enzymes that catalyze the NADPH-dependent oxygenation of various nitrogen-,sulfur-, and phosphorous-containing xenobiotics such as therapeutic drugs, dietary compounds, pesticides, and other foreign compounds. The human FMO gene family is composed of 5 genes and multiple pseudogenes. FMO members have distinct developmental- and tissue-specific expression patterns. The expression of this FMO3 gene, the major FMO expressed in adult liver, can vary up to 20-fold between individuals. This inter-individual variation in FMO3 expression levels is likely to have significant effects on the rate at which xenobiotics are metabolised and, therefore, is of considerable interest to the pharmaceutical industry. This transmembrane protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum of many tissues. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. Mutations in this gene cause the disorder trimethylaminuria (TMAu) which is characterized by the accumulation and excretion of unmetabolized trimethylamine and a distinctive body odor. In healthy individuals, trimethylamine is primarily converted to the non odorous trimethylamine N-oxide.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000110347	 Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. It is thought that the protein encoded by this gene is cleaved at both ends to yield the active enzyme, but this processing has not been fully described. The enzyme degrades soluble and insoluble elastin. It may play a role in aneurysm formation and studies in mice suggest a role in the development of emphysema. The gene is part of a cluster of MMP genes which localize to chromosome 11q22.3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182346	 This gene encodes a protein that may function as an activator of D-amino acid oxidase, which degrades the gliotransmitter D-serine, a potent activator of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type glutamate receptors. Studies also suggest that one encoded isoform may play a role in mitochondrial function and dendritic arborization. Polymorphisms in this gene have been implicated in susceptibility to schizophrenia and bipolar affective disorder. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000184788	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from Z99571.2 and Z83820.2. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000101200	 This gene encodes a precursor protein consisting of arginine vasopressin and two associated proteins, neurophysin 2 and a glycopeptide, copeptin. Arginine vasopressin is a posterior pituitary hormone which is synthesized in the supraoptic nucleus and paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Along with its carrier protein, neurophysin 2, it is packaged into neurosecretory vesicles and transported axonally to the nerve endings in the neurohypophysis where it is either stored or secreted into the bloodstream. The precursor is thought to be activated while it is being transported along the axon to the posterior pituitary. Arginine vasopressin acts as a growth factor by enhancing pH regulation through acid-base transport systems. It has a direct antidiuretic action on the kidney, and also causes vasoconstriction of the peripheral vessels. This hormone can contract smooth muscle during parturition and lactation. It is also involved in cognition, tolerance, adaptation and complex sexual and maternal behaviour, as well as in the regulation of water excretion and cardiovascular functions. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus (ADNDI). [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000175920	 The protein encoded by this gene is essential for neuromuscular synaptogenesis. The protein functions in aneural activation of muscle-specific receptor kinase, which is required for postsynaptic differentiation, and in the subsequent clustering of the acetylcholine receptor in myotubes. This protein can also induce autophosphorylation of muscle-specific receptor kinase. Mutations in this gene are a cause of familial limb-girdle myasthenia autosomal recessive, which is also known as congenital myasthenic syndrome type 1B. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000119392	 This gene encodes a predicted 75-kDa polypeptide with high sequence and structure homology to yeast Gle1p, which is nuclear protein with a leucine-rich nuclear export sequence essential for poly(A)+RNA export. Inhibition of human GLE1L by microinjection of antibodies against GLE1L in HeLa cells resulted in inhibition of poly(A)+RNA export. Immunoflourescence studies show that GLE1L is localized at the nuclear pore complexes. This localization suggests that GLE1L may act at a terminal step in the export of mature RNA messages to the cytoplasm. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000023909	 Glutamate-cysteine ligase, also known as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase, is the first rate limiting enzyme of glutathione synthesis. The enzyme consists of two subunits, a heavy catalytic subunit and a light regulatory subunit. Gamma glutamylcysteine synthetase deficiency has been implicated in some forms of hemolytic anemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000001084	 Glutamate-cysteine ligase, also known as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase is the first rate-limiting enzyme of glutathione synthesis. The enzyme consists of two subunits, a heavy catalytic subunit and a light regulatory subunit. This locus encodes the catalytic subunit, while the regulatory subunit is derived from a different gene located on chromosome 1p22-p21. Mutations at this locus have been associated with hemolytic anemia due to deficiency of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase and susceptibility to myocardial infarction.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000130283	 This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) family and the TGF-beta superfamily. This group of proteins is characterized by a polybasic proteolytic processing site that is cleaved to produce a mature protein containing seven conserved cysteine residues. The members of this family are regulators of cell growth and differentiation in both embryonic and adult tissues. Studies in rodents suggest that this protein is involved in the establishment of left-right asymmetry in early embryogenesis and in neural development in later embryogenesis. This protein is transcribed from a bicistronic mRNA that also encodes the longevity assurance gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000099937	 The product encoded by this gene is a serine proteinase inhibitor which rapidly inhibits thrombin in the presence of dermatan sulfate or heparin. The gene contains five exons and four introns. This protein shares homology with antithrombin III and other members of the alpha 1-antitrypsin superfamily. Mutations in this gene are associated with heparin cofactor II deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000084207	 Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are a family of enzymes that play an important role in detoxification by catalyzing the conjugation of many hydrophobic and electrophilic compounds with reduced glutathione. Based on their biochemical, immunologic, and structural properties, the soluble GSTs are categorized into 4 main classes: alpha, mu, pi, and theta. This GST family member is a polymorphic gene encoding active, functionally different GSTP1 variant proteins that are thought to function in xenobiotic metabolism and play a role in susceptibility to cancer, and other diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184908	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the family of voltage-gated chloride channels. Chloride channels have several functions, including the regulation of cell volume, membrane potential stabilization, signal transduction and transepithelial transport. This gene is expressed predominantly in the kidney and may be important for renal salt reabsorption. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive Bartter syndrome type 3 (BS3). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000092758	 This gene encodes one of the three alpha chains of type IX collagen, the major collagen component of hyaline cartilage. Type IX collagen, a heterotrimeric molecule, is usually found in tissues containing type II collagen, a fibrillar collagen. Mutations in this gene are associated with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia type 3. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000052850	 This gene encodes a paired-like homeodomain transcription factor expressed in the mesenchyme of developing bones, limbs, hair, teeth, and mammary tissue. Mutations in this gene cause parietal foramina 2 (PFM2); an autosomal dominant disease characterized by deficient ossification of the parietal bones. Mutations in this gene also cause a form of frontonasal dysplasia with alopecia and hypogonadism; suggesting a role for this gene in craniofacial development, mesenchymal-epithelial communication, and hair follicle development. Deletion of a segment of chromosome 11 containing this gene, del(11)(p11p12), causes Potocki-Shaffer syndrome (PSS); a syndrome characterized by craniofacial anomalies, mental retardation, multiple exostoses, and genital abnormalities in males. In mouse, this gene has been shown to use dual translation initiation sites located 16 codons apart. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000006744	 The protein encoded by this gene has a C-terminal domain with tRNA 3' processing endoribonuclease activity, which catalyzes the removal of the 3' trailer from precursor tRNAs. The protein also interacts with activated Smad family member 2 (Smad2) and its nuclear partner forkhead box H1 (also known as FAST-1), and reduced expression can suppress transforming growth factor-beta induced growth arrest. Mutations in this gene result in an increased risk of prostate cancer. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000078589	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors, that are preferentially activated by adenosine and uridine nucleotides. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein isoform have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186462	 The protein encoded by this intronless gene is a member of the nucleosome assembly protein (NAP) family. The encoded protein represents a class of tissue-specific factors that interact with chromatin to regulate neuronal cell proliferation. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000186310	 This gene is intronless and encodes a member of the nucleosome assembly protein (NAP) family. This gene is linked closely to a region of genes responsible for several X-linked mental retardation syndromes. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000158528	 This gene is imprinted, and located in a cluster of imprinted genes on chromosome 7q12. This gene is transcribed in both neuronal and multiple embryonic tissues, and it is maternally expressed mainly in embryonic skeletal muscle tissues and biallelically expressed in other embryonic tissues. The protein encoded by this gene includes a PDZ domain and a sterile alpha motif (SAM). It is a regulatory subunit of protein phosphatase I, and controls actin cytoskeleton reorganization. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000106344	 The protein encoded by this gene is a specific nucleolar component of the spliceosomal small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP)complexes . It specifically associates with U1, U2, U4, U5, and U6 small nuclear RNAs (snRNAs), possibly coordinating their transition through the nucleolus. Mutation in this gene causes alopecia, progressive neurological defects, and endocrinopathy (ANE syndrome), a pleiotropic and clinically heterogeneous disorder. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000176624	 This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins with two K homology (KH) RNA-binding domains and a C-terminal RING-finger domain. The protein interacts with mRNA via the KH domains, and the protein shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm. Polymorphisms in this gene may contribute to hypertension. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000179148	 This gene is a member of the lipoxygenase family, which are catabolized by arachidonic acid-derived compounds. The encoded enzyme is a hydroperoxide isomerase that synthesizes a unique type of epoxy alcohol (8R-hydroxy-11R,12R-epoxyeicosa-5Z,9E,14Z-trienoic acid) from 12R-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid (12R-HPETE). This epoxy alcohol can activate the the nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha), which is implicated in epidermal differentiation. Loss of function of the enzyme encoded by this gene results in ichthyosis, implicating the function of this gene in the differentiation of human skin. This gene is part of a cluster of lipoxygenase genes on 17p13.1. Mutations in this gene result in nonbullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma (NCIE). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000164532	 This gene encodes a T-box family member. The T-box family members share a common DNA binding domain, termed the T-box, and they are transcription factors involved in the regulation of developmental processes. This gene is essential for heart development. Mutations in this gene are associated with diverse cardiac pathologies, including defects in septation, valvulogenesis and cardiomyopathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000073605	 This gene encodes a member of the gasdermin-domain containing protein family. Other gasdermin-family genes are implicated in the regulation of apoptosis in epithelial cells, and are linked to cancer. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Additional variants have been described, but they are candidates for nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) and are unlikely to be protein-coding. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000166796	  Lactate dehydrogenase C catalyzes the conversion of L-lactate and NAD to pyruvate and NADH in the final step of anaerobic glycolysis.  LDHC is testis-specific and belongs to the lactate dehydrogenase family.  Two transcript variants have been detected which differ in the 5' untranslated region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000142192	 This gene encodes a cell surface receptor and transmembrane precursor protein that is cleaved by secretases to form a number of peptides. Some of these peptides are secreted and can bind to the acetyltransferase complex APBB1/TIP60 to promote transcriptional activation, while others form the protein basis of the amyloid plaques found in the brains of patients with Alzheimer disease. Mutations in this gene have been implicated in autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease and cerebroarterial amyloidosis (cerebral amyloid angiopathy). Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000070729	 In humans, the rod photoreceptor cGMP-gated cation channel helps regulate ion flow into the rod photoreceptor outer segment in response to light-induced alteration of the levels of intracellular cGMP. This channel consists of two subunits, alpha and beta, with the protein encoded by this gene representing the beta subunit. Defects in this gene are a cause of cause of retinitis pigmentosa type 45. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000066827	 This gene encodes a protein that likely binds DNA and functions as a transcriptional regulator involved in apoptosis and cell survival. This gene resides in a susceptibility locus for autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) on chromosome 8q24. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000099942	 This gene encodes a protein kinase containing SH2 and SH3 (src homology) domains which has been shown to activate the RAS and JUN kinase signaling pathways and transform fibroblasts in a RAS-dependent fashion. It is a substrate of the BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase, plays a role in fibroblast transformation by BCR-ABL, and may be oncogenic.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000118777	 The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is included in the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the White subfamily. Alternatively referred to as a breast cancer resistance protein, this protein functions as a xenobiotic transporter which may play a major role in multi-drug resistance. It likely serves as a cellular defense mechanism in response to mitoxantrone and anthracycline exposure. Significant expression of this protein has been observed in the placenta, which may suggest a potential role for this molecule in placenta tissue. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000128731	 This gene belongs to the HERC gene family that encodes a group of unusually large proteins, which contain multiple structural domains. All members have at least 1 copy of an N-terminal region showing homology to the cell cycle regulator RCC1 and a C-terminal HECT (homologous to E6-AP C terminus) domain found in a number of E3 ubiquitin protein ligases. Genetic variations in this gene are associated with skin/hair/eye pigmentation variability. Multiple pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 15 and 16. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000072778	 The protein encoded by this gene is targeted to the inner mitochondrial membrane where it catalyzes the first step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway. This acyl-Coenzyme A dehydrogenase is specific to long-chain and very-long-chain fatty acids. A deficiency in this gene product reduces myocardial fatty acid beta-oxidation and is associated with cardiomyopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112367	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SAC domain-containing protein gene family. The SAC domain, approximately 400 amino acids in length and consisting of seven conserved motifs, has been shown to possess phosphoinositide phosphatase activity. The yeast homolog, Sac1p, is involved in the regulation of various phosphoinositides, and affects diverse cellular functions such as actin cytoskeleton organization, Golgi function, and maintenance of vacuole morphology. Membrane-bound phosphoinositides function as signaling molecules and play a key role in vesicle trafficking in eukaryotic cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, type 4J. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000259905	 This gene is located in the Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) region of chromosome 15, which is known to undergo imprinting. The transcript is believed to be non-coding. It is bi-allelically expressed in testis and kidney, but mono-allelically expressed from the paternal allele in brain. This gene is poly-adenylated and is known to undergo alternative splicing. Transcript variants may represent part of a complex imprinting center-SNURF-SNRPN transcription unit. The contribution of this gene to the PWS phenotype is unknown, but it has been suggested that it may play a role in establishing paternal imprinting in the PWS region, perhaps by maintaining the paternal allele in an open chromatin configuration. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000229807	 X inactivation is an early developmental process in mammalian females that transcriptionally silences one of the pair of X chromosomes, thus providing dosage equivalence between males and females. The process is regulated by several factors, including a region of chromosome X called the X inactivation center (XIC). The XIC comprises several non-coding and protein-coding genes, and this gene was the first non-coding gene identified within the XIC. This gene is expressed exclusively from the XIC of the inactive X chromosome, and is essential for the initiation and spread of X-inactivation. The transcript is a spliced RNA. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified, but their full length sequences have not been determined. Mutations in the XIST promoter cause familial skewed X inactivation. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000230223	 This gene is an antisense transcript to the KLHL1 gene (homolog to the Drosophila KELCH gene); it does not itself appear to be protein coding. A TAC/TGC trinucleotide repeat expansion that is incorporated into this gene transcript, but not the KLHL1 transcript, causes spinocerebellar ataxia type 8. Presumably the expansion interferes with normal antisense function of this transcript. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000183134	 This gene encodes a G-protein-coupled receptor that is preferentially expressed in CD4+ effector T helper 2 (Th2) cells. This protein is a prostaglandin D2 receptor that mediates the pro-inflammatory chemotaxis of eosinophils, basophils, and Th2 lymphocytes generated during allergic inflammation. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the 3' UTR of this gene have been associated with asthma susceptibility.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000124429	 Premature ovarian failure (POF) is characterized by primary or secondary amenorrhea in women less than 40 years old. Two POF susceptibility regions called 'POF1' and 'POF2' have been identified by breakpoint mapping of X-autosome translocations. POF1 extends from Xq21-qter while POF2 extends from Xq13.3 to Xq21.1. This gene, POF1B, resides in the POF2 region. This gene is expressed at trace levels in mouse prenatal ovary and is barely detectable or absent from adult ovary, in human and in the mouse respectively. This gene's expression is restricted to epithelia with its highest expression in the epidermis, and oro-pharyngeal and gastro-intestinal tracts. The protein encoded by this gene binds non-muscle actin filaments. The role this gene may play in the etiology of premature ovarian failure remains to be determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000135917	 This gene encodes a ubiquitously expressed transmembrane thiamine transporter that lacks folate transport activity. Mutations in this gene cause biotin-responsive basal ganglia disease (BBGD); a recessive disorder manifested in childhood that progresses to chronic encephalopathy, dystonia, quadriparesis, and death if untreated. Patients with BBGD have bilateral necrosis in the head of the caudate nucleus and in the putamen. Administration of high doses of biotin in the early progression of the disorder eliminates pathological symptoms while delayed treatment results in residual paraparesis, mild mental retardation, or dystonia. Administration of thiamine is ineffective in the treatment of this disorder. Experiments have failed to show that this protein can transport biotin. Mutations in this gene also cause a Wernicke's-like encephalopathy.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000204482	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein that can inhibit the proliferation of lymphocytes. Expression of this gene is enhanced by lipopolysaccharide, interferon-gamma, and bacteria. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000198252	 The protein encoded by this gene is a pseudophosphatase, able to bind potential substrates but lacking an active catalytic loop. The encoded protein may be involved in spermiogenesis. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for these genes. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000114316	 The protein encoded by this gene is a protease that deubiquitinates target proteins such as ADORA2A and TRIM21. The encoded protein shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm and is involved in maintaining operational fidelity in the endoplasmic reticulum. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000166482	 This gene encodes a protein with similarity to a bovine microfibril-associated protein. The protein has binding specificities for both collagen and carbohydrate. It is thought to be an extracellular matrix protein which is involved in cell adhesion or intercellular interactions. The gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000174667	 Olfactory receptors interact with odorant molecules in the nose, to initiate a neuronal response that triggers the perception of a smell. The olfactory receptor proteins are members of a large family of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) arising from single coding-exon genes. Olfactory receptors share a 7-transmembrane domain structure with many neurotransmitter and hormone receptors and are responsible for the recognition and G protein-mediated transduction of odorant signals. The olfactory receptor gene family is the largest in the genome. The nomenclature assigned to the olfactory receptor genes and proteins for this organism is independent of other organisms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159128	 This gene (IFNGR2) encodes the non-ligand-binding beta chain of the gamma interferon receptor. Human interferon-gamma receptor is a heterodimer of IFNGR1 and IFNGR2. Defects in IFNGR2 are a cause of mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial disease (MSMD), also known as familial disseminated atypical mycobacterial infection. MSMD is a genetically heterogeneous disease with autosomal recessive, autosomal dominant or X-linked inheritance. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113448	 This gene encodes one of four mammalian counterparts to the fruit fly 'dunce' gene. The encoded protein has 3',5'-cyclic-AMP phosphodiesterase activity and degrades cAMP, which acts as a signal transduction molecule in multiple cell types. This gene uses different promoters to generate multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode functional proteins.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000106635	 This gene encodes a member of the BCL7 family including BCL7A, BCL7B and BCL7C proteins. This member is BCL7B, which contains a region that is highly similar to the N-terminal segment of BCL7A or BCL7C proteins. The BCL7A protein is encoded by the gene known to be directly involved in a three-way gene translocation in a Burkitt lymphoma cell line. This gene is located at a chromosomal region commonly deleted in Williams syndrome. This gene is highly conserved from C. elegans to human. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000102098	 This gene encodes a member of the Polycomb group proteins. These proteins form the Polycomb repressive complexes which are involved in transcriptional repression. The encoded protein binds histone peptides that are monomethylated at lysine residues and may be involved in regulating homeotic gene expression during development. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000196933	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL929401.8. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000113716	 This gene is one of the non-canonical high mobility group (HMG) genes. The encoded protein contains an HMG-box domain found in DNA binding proteins such as transcription factors and chromosomal proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000056277	 This gene encodes a member of the zinc finger domain-containing protein family. This family member contains multiple Cys2-His2(C2H2)-type zinc finger domains, the most common type of zinc finger domain that self-folds to form a beta-beta-alpha structure that binds a zinc ion. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000184735	 This intronless gene encodes a protein which contains several domains found in members of the DEAD-box helicase protein family. Other members of this protein family participate in ATP-dependent RNA unwinding. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000087088	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. This protein forms a heterodimer with BCL2, and functions as an apoptotic activator. This protein is reported to interact with, and increase the opening of, the mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), which leads to the loss in membrane potential and the release of cytochrome c. The expression of this gene is regulated by the tumor suppressor P53 and has been shown to be involved in P53-mediated apoptosis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode different isoforms, have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000111671	 This gene encodes encodes a suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) family member, and it belongs to the subfamily of proteins containing a central SPRY (repeats in splA and RyR) domain and a C-terminal SOCS box. This gene is present in a gene-rich cluster on chromosome 12p13 in the vicinity of the CD4 antigen and triosephosphate isomerase genes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000159423	 This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. This enzyme is a mitochondrial matrix NAD-dependent dehydrogenase which catalyzes the second step of the proline degradation pathway, converting pyrroline-5-carboxylate to glutamate. Deficiency of this enzyme is associated with type II hyperprolinemia, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by accumulation of delta-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C) and proline. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000137198	 This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the irreversible and NADPH-dependent reductive deamination of GMP to IMP. The protein also functions in the re-utilization of free intracellular bases and purine nucleosides.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000248746	 This gene encodes a member of the alpha-actin binding protein gene family. The encoded protein is primarily expressed in skeletal muscle and functions as a structural component of sarcomeric Z line. This protein is involved in crosslinking actin containing thin filaments. An allelic polymorphism in this gene results in both coding and non-coding variants. The reference genome contains the non-coding allele. The non-functional allele of this gene is associated with elite athlete status. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000197870	 The protein encoded by this gene is a proline-rich salivary protein. It is a major constituent of parotid saliva. This protein is proposed to act as a bacterial receptor. This gene and five other genes that also encode salivary proline-rich proteins (PRPs), as well as a gene encoding a lacrimal gland PRP, form a PRP gene cluster in the chromosomal 12p13 region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119614	 This gene encodes a homeobox protein originally described as a retina-specific transcription factor. Mutations in this gene are associated with microphthalmia, cataracts and iris abnormalities. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000006453	 This gene encodes a member of the IMD (IRSp53/MIM homology domain) family. Members of this family can be subdivided in two groups, the IRSp53-like and MIM-like, based on the presence or absence of the SH3 (Src homology 3) domain. The protein encoded by this gene contains a conserved IMD, also known as F-actin bundling domain, at the N-terminus, and a canonical SH3 domain near the C-terminus, so it belongs to the IRSp53-like group. This protein is the substrate for insulin receptor tyrosine kinase and binds to the small GTPase Rac. It is involved in signal transduction pathways that link deformation of the plasma membrane and remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton. It also promotes actin assembly and membrane protrusions when overexpressed in mammalian cells, and is essential to the formation of a potent actin assembly complex during EHEC (Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli) pedestal formation. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000123810	 This gene encodes a B9 domain protein, which are exclusively found in ciliated organisms. The gene is upregulated during mucociliary differentiation, and the encoded protein localizes to basal bodies and cilia. Disrupting expression of this gene results in ciliogenesis defects. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000131981	 This gene encodes a member of the galectin family of carbohydrate binding proteins. Members of this protein family have an affinity for beta-galactosides. The encoded protein is characterized by an N-terminal proline-rich tandem repeat domain and a single C-terminal carbohydrate recognition domain. This protein can self-associate through the N-terminal domain allowing it to bind to multivalent saccharide ligands. This protein localizes to the extracellular matrix, the cytoplasm and the nucleus. This protein plays a role in numerous cellular functions including apoptosis, innate immunity, cell adhesion and T-cell regulation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000164182	 NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) catalyzes the transfer of electrons from NADH to ubiquinone (coenzyme Q) in the first step of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, resulting in the translocation of protons across the inner mitochondrial membrane. This gene encodes a complex I assembly factor. Mutations in this gene cause progressive encephalopathy resulting from mitochondrial complex I deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000015479	 This locus encodes a nuclear matrix protein. Mutations at this locus have been associated with distal myopathy 2, which often includes vocal cord and pharyngeal weakness. Alternatively spliced transcript variants, including read-through transcripts with an upstream locus have been described. Related pseuodgenes have been defined on chr1 and chrX.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000124370	 The product of this gene catalyzes the interconversion of D- and L-methylmalonyl-CoA during the degradation of branched chain amino acids. odd chain-length fatty acids, and other metabolites. Mutations in this gene result in methylmalonyl-CoA epimerase deficiency, which is presented as mild to moderate methylmalonic aciduria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169427	 This gene encodes a member of the superfamily of potassium channel proteins containing two pore-forming P domains, and is highly expressed in the cerebellum. Amplification and overexpression of this gene has been observed in several types of human carcinomas, notably in breast cancer. This gene is imprinted in fetal brain, with preferential expression from the maternal allele. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000134324	 This gene encodes a magnesium-ion-dependent phosphatidic acid phosphohydrolase enzyme that catalyzes the penultimate step in triglyceride synthesis including the dephosphorylation of phosphatidic acid to yield diacylglycerol. Expression of this gene is required for adipocyte differentiation and it also functions as a nuclear transcriptional coactivator with some peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors to modulate expression of other genes involved in lipid metabolism. Mutations in this gene are associated with metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, and autosomal recessive acute recurrent myoglobinuria (ARARM). This gene is also a candidate for several human lipodystrophy syndromes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional splice variants have been described but their full-length structures have not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000171004	 Heparan sulfate proteoglycans are ubiquitous components of the cell surface, extracellular matrix, and basement membranes, and interact with various ligands to influence cell growth, differentiation, adhesion, and migration. This gene encodes a member of the heparan sulfate (HS) sulfotransferase gene family, which catalyze the transfer of sulfate to HS. Different family members and isoforms are thought to synthesize heparan sulfates with tissue-specific structures and functions. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148459	 The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that elongates the prenyl side-chain of coenzyme Q, or ubiquinone, one of the key elements in the respiratory chain. The gene product catalyzes the formation of all trans-polyprenyl pyrophosphates from isopentyl diphosphate in the assembly of polyisoprenoid side chains, the first step in coenzyme Q biosynthesis. The protein may be peripherally associated with the inner mitochondrial membrane, though no transit peptide has been definitively identified to date. Defects in this gene are a cause of coenzyme Q10 deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198515	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in phototransduction. Along with another protein, the encoded protein forms a cGMP-gated cation channel in the plasma membrane, allowing depolarization of rod photoreceptors. This represents the last step in the phototransduction pathway. Defects in this gene are a cause of retinitis pigmentosa autosomal recessive (ARRP) disease. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000003436	 This gene encodes a protease inhibitor that regulates the tissue factor (TF)-dependent pathway of blood coagulation. The coagulation process initiates with the formation of a factor VIIa-TF complex, which proteolytically activates additional proteases (factors IX and X) and ultimately leads to the formation of a fibrin clot. The product of this gene inhibits the activated factor X and VIIa-TF proteases in an autoregulatory loop. The encoded protein is glycosylated and predominantly found in the vascular endothelium and plasma in both free forms and complexed with plasma lipoproteins. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been confirmed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000008294	 This gene encodes a member of the cancer testis antigen gene family. The encoded protein functions as a scaffold protein that structurally organizes mitogen-activated protein kinases and mediates c-Jun-terminal kinase signaling. This protein also binds to kinesin-1 and may be involved in microtubule-based membrane transport. This protein may play a role in tumor growth and development. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000159167	 This gene encodes a secreted, homodimeric glycoprotein that is expressed in a wide variety of tissues and may have autocrine or paracrine functions. The gene contains a 5' UTR rich in CAG trinucleotide repeats. The encoded protein contains 11 conserved cysteine residues and is phosphorylated by protein kinase C exclusively on its serine residues. The protein may play a role in the regulation of renal and intestinal calcium and phosphate transport, cell metabolism, or cellular calcium/phosphate homeostasis. Overexpression of human stanniocalcin 1 in mice produces high serum phosphate levels, dwarfism, and increased metabolic rate. This gene has altered expression in hepatocellular, ovarian, and breast cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137501	 The protein encoded by this gene is a synaptotagmin-like protein (SLP) that belongs to a C2 domain-containing protein family. The SLP homology domain (SHD) of this protein has been shown to specifically bind the GTP-bound form of Ras-related protein Rab-27A (RAB27A). This protein plays a role in RAB27A-dependent vesicle trafficking and controls melanosome distribution in the cell periphery. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000162298	 This gene encodes a protein involved in endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated degradation. The encoded protein removes unfolded proteins, accumulated during ER stress, by retrograde transport to the cytosol from the ER. This protein also uses the ubiquitin-proteasome system for additional degradation of unfolded proteins. Sequence analysis identified two transcript variants that encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000105618	 This gene encodes a component of the spliceosome complex and is one of several retinitis pigmentosa-causing genes. When the gene product is added to the spliceosome complex, activation occurs.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000134376	 This gene encodes a protein which is similar to the Drosophila crumbs protein and localizes to the inner segment of mammalian photoreceptors. In Drosophila crumbs localizes to the stalk of the fly photoreceptor and may be a component of the molecular scaffold that controls proper development of polarity in the eye. Mutations in this gene are associated with a severe form of retinitis pigmentosa, RP12, and with Leber congenital amaurosis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants, some protein coding and some non-protein coding.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000197465	 The protein encoded by this gene is a sialoglycoprotein and a type I membrane protein. It is a member of a gene family with GPA and GPB genes. This encoded protein might carry the M blood group antigen. GYPA, GYPB, and GYPE are organized in tandem on chromosome 4. This gene might have derived from an ancestral gene common to the GPB gene by gene duplication. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the GYPE*0010101 allele. 
ENSG00000112619	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein found in the outer segment of both rod and cone photoreceptor cells. It may function as an adhesion molecule involved in stabilization and compaction of outer segment disks or in the maintenance of the curvature of the rim. This protein is essential for disk morphogenesis. Defects in this gene are associated with both central and peripheral retinal degenerations. Some of the various phenotypically different disorders are autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa, progressive macular degeneration, macular dystrophy and retinitis pigmentosa digenic. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101890	 The protein encoded by this gene is a guanylyl cyclase found predominantly in photoreceptors in the retina. The encoded protein is thought to be involved in resynthesis of cGMP after light activation of the visual signal transduction cascade, allowing a return to the dark state. This protein is a single-pass type I membrane protein. Defects in this gene may be a cause of X-linked retinitis pigmentosa. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000170276	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the superfamily of small heat-shock proteins containing a conservative alpha-crystallin domain at the C-terminal part of the molecule. The protein is expressed preferentially in the heart and skeletal muscle. This protein regulates Myotonic Dystrophy Protein Kinase, which plays an important role in maintenance of muscle structure and function. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000126602	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial chaperone protein that is member of the heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) family. The encoded protein has ATPase activity and interacts with tumor necrosis factor type I. This protein may function in regulating cellular stress responses. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000108242	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum but its specific substrate has not yet been determined. The gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24. An additional gene, CYP2C17, was once thought to exist; however, CYP2C17 is now considered an artefact based on a chimera of CYP2C18 and CYP2C19. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164751	 This gene encodes an integral peroxisomal membrane protein required for peroxisome biogenesis. The protein is thought to be involved in peroxisomal matrix protein import. Mutations in this gene result in one form of Zellweger syndrome and infantile Refsum disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124587	 This gene encodes a member of the AAA (ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities) family of ATPases. This member is a predominantly cytoplasmic protein, which plays a direct role in peroxisomal protein import and is required for PTS1 (peroxisomal targeting signal 1, a C-terminal tripeptide of the sequence ser-lys-leu) receptor activity. Mutations in this gene cause peroxisome biogenesis disorders of complementation group 4 and complementation group 6. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000255974	 This gene, CYP2A6, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by phenobarbital. The enzyme is known to hydroxylate coumarin, and also metabolizes nicotine, aflatoxin B1, nitrosamines, and some pharmaceuticals. Individuals with certain allelic variants are said to have a poor metabolizer phenotype, meaning they do not efficiently metabolize coumarin or nicotine. This gene is part of a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q. The gene was formerly referred to as CYP2A3; however, it has been renamed CYP2A6. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000179142	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the mitochondrial inner membrane. The enzyme has steroid 18-hydroxylase activity to synthesize aldosterone and 18-oxocortisol as well as steroid 11 beta-hydroxylase activity. Mutations in this gene cause corticosterone methyl oxidase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000206190	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of aminophospholipid-transporting ATPases. The aminophospholipid translocases transport phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylethanolamine from one side of a bilayer to another. This gene is maternally expressed. It maps within the most common interval of deletion responsible for Angelman syndrome, also known as 'happy puppet syndrome'. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000154188	 Angiopoietins are proteins with important roles in vascular development and angiogenesis. All angiopoietins bind with similar affinity to an endothelial cell-specific tyrosine-protein kinase receptor. The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted glycoprotein that activates the receptor by inducing its tyrosine phosphorylation. It plays a critical role in mediating reciprocal interactions between the endothelium and surrounding matrix and mesenchyme and inhibits endothelial permeability. The protein also contributes to blood vessel maturation and stability, and may be involved in early development of the heart. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000088812	 Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms exist for this gene. One of the isoforms is a membrane-bound protein with sequence similarity to the mouse mahogany protein, a receptor involved in controlling obesity. The other two isoforms are secreted proteins involved in the initial immune cell clustering during inflammatory responses that may regulate the chemotactic activity of chemokines. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000058404	 The product of this gene belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. Calcium signaling is crucial for several aspects of plasticity at glutamatergic synapses. In mammalian cells, the enzyme is composed of four different chains: alpha, beta, gamma, and delta. The product of this gene is a beta chain. It is possible that distinct isoforms of this chain have different cellular localizations and interact differently with calmodulin. Eight transcript variants encoding eight distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132535	 This gene encodes a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family. It heteromultimerizes with another MAGUK protein, DLG2, and is recruited into NMDA receptor and potassium channel clusters. These two MAGUK proteins may interact at postsynaptic sites to form a multimeric scaffold for the clustering of receptors, ion channels, and associated signaling proteins. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147382	 Mutations in this gene have been shown to cause an X-linked dominant STAR syndrome that typically manifests syndactyly, telecanthus and anogenital and renal malformations. The protein encoded by this gene contains a cyclin-box-fold domain which suggests it may have a role in controlling nuclear cell division cycles. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000127947	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains a C-terminal PEST motif, which serves as a protein-protein interaction domain, and may regulate protein intracellular half-life. This PTP was found to bind and dephosphorylate the product of the oncogene c-ABL and thus may play a role in oncogenesis. This PTP was also shown to interact with, and dephosphorylate, various products related to cytoskeletal structure and cell adhesion, such as p130 (Cas), CAKbeta/PTK2B, PSTPIP1, and paxillin. This suggests it has a regulatory role in controlling cell shape and mobility. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000115386	 This gene is a type I subclass member of the Reg gene family. The Reg gene family is a multigene family grouped into four subclasses, types I, II, III and IV, based on the primary structures of the encoded proteins. This gene encodes a protein that is secreted by the exocrine pancreas. It is associated with islet cell regeneration and diabetogenesis and may be involved in pancreatic lithogenesis. Reg family members REG1B, REGL, PAP and this gene are tandemly clustered on chromosome 2p12 and may have arisen from the same ancestral gene by gene duplication. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000079102	 This gene encodes a member of the myeloid translocation gene family which interact with DNA-bound transcription factors and recruit a range of corepressors to facilitate transcriptional repression. The t(8;21)(q22;q22) translocation is one of the most frequent karyotypic abnormalities in acute myeloid leukemia. The translocation produces a chimeric gene made up of the 5'-region of the runt-related transcription factor 1 gene fused to the 3'-region of this gene. The chimeric protein is thought to associate with the nuclear corepressor/histone deacetylase complex to block hematopoietic differentiation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000112335	 This gene encodes a member of the sorting nexin family. Members of this family contain a phox (PX) domain, which is a phosphoinositide binding domain, and are involved in intracellular trafficking. This protein does not contain a coiled coil region, like most family members. This protein interacts with phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate, and is involved in protein trafficking. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171453	 The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of both RNA polymerase I and RNA polymerase III complexes. The encoded protein is part of the Pol core element. Defects in this gene have been associated with Treacher Collins syndrome (TCS). [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000108175	 This gene encodes a member of the PIAS (protein inhibitor of activated STAT) family of proteins. The encoded protein regulates the activity of various transcription factors, including the androgen receptor, Smad3/4, and p53. The encoded protein may also play a role in sumoylation. A translocation between this locus on chromosome 10 and the protein tyrosine kinase ABL1 locus on chromosome 9 has been associated with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000169704	 This gene encodes a small membrane glycoprotein found on the surface of human platelets. It forms a 1-to-1 noncovalent complex with glycoprotein Ib, a platelet surface membrane glycoprotein complex that functions as a receptor for von Willebrand factor. The complete receptor complex includes noncovalent association of the alpha and beta subunits with the protein encoded by this gene and platelet glycoprotein V. Defects in this gene are a cause of Bernard-Soulier syndrome, also known as giant platelet disease. These patients have unusually large platelets and have a clinical bleeding tendency. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000148218	 The ALAD enzyme is composed of 8 identical subunits and catalyzes the condensation of 2 molecules of delta-aminolevulinate to form porphobilinogen (a precursor of heme, cytochromes and other hemoproteins). ALAD catalyzes the second step in the porphyrin and heme biosynthetic pathway; zinc is essential for enzymatic activity. ALAD enzymatic activity is inhibited by lead and a defect in the ALAD structural gene can cause increased sensitivity to lead poisoning and acute hepatic porphyria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000179399	 Cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans are composed of a membrane-associated protein core substituted with a variable number of heparan sulfate chains. Members of the glypican-related integral membrane proteoglycan family (GRIPS) contain a core protein anchored to the cytoplasmic membrane via a glycosyl phosphatidylinositol linkage.  These proteins may play a role in the control of cell division and growth regulation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000016391	 The protein encoded by this gene is a choline dehydrogenase that localizes to the mitochondrion. Variations in this gene can affect susceptibility to choline deficiency. A few transcript variants have been found for this gene, but the full-length nature of only one has been characterized to date. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000039068	 This gene is a classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily. The encoded protein is a calcium dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoprotein comprised of five extracellular cadherin repeats, a transmembrane region and a highly conserved cytoplasmic tail. Mutations in this gene are correlated with gastric, breast, colorectal, thyroid and ovarian cancer. Loss of function is thought to contribute to progression in cancer by increasing proliferation, invasion, and/or metastasis. The ectodomain of this protein mediates bacterial adhesion to mammalian cells and the cytoplasmic domain is required for internalization. Identified transcript variants arise from mutation at consensus splice sites. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120437	 The product of this gene is an enzyme involved in lipid metabolism, and it encodes cytosolic acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase. This gene shows complementary overlapping with the 3-prime region of the TCP1 gene in both mouse and human. These genes are encoded on opposite strands of DNA, as well as in opposite transcriptional orientation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143549	 This gene encodes a member of the tropomyosin family of actin-binding proteins involved in the contractile system of striated and smooth muscles and the cytoskeleton of non-muscle cells. Tropomyosins are dimers of coiled-coil proteins that polymerize end-to-end along the major groove in most actin filaments. They provide stability to the filaments and regulate access of other actin-binding proteins. In muscle cells, they regulate muscle contraction by controlling the binding of myosin heads to the actin filament. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal dominant nemaline myopathy, and oncogenes formed by chromosomal translocations involving this locus are associated with cancer. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204632	 HLA-G belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues. This class I molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain and a light chain (beta-2 microglobulin). The heavy chain is anchored in the membrane. HLA-G is expressed on fetal derived placental cells. The heavy chain is approximately 45 kDa and its gene contains 8 exons. Exon one encodes the leader peptide, exons 2 and 3 encode the alpha1 and alpha2 domain, which both bind the peptide, exon 4 encodes the alpha3 domain, exon 5 encodes the transmembrane region, and exon 6 encodes the cytoplasmic tail. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128422	 This gene encodes the type I intermediate filament chain keratin 17, expressed in nail bed, hair follicle, sebaceous glands, and other epidermal appendages. Mutations in this gene lead to Jackson-Lawler type pachyonychia congenita and steatocystoma multiplex. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000186847	 This gene encodes a member of the keratin family, the most diverse group of intermediate filaments. This gene product, a type I keratin, is usually found as a heterotetramer with two keratin 5 molecules, a type II keratin. Together they form the cytoskeleton of epithelial cells. Mutations in the genes for these keratins are associated with epidermolysis bullosa simplex. At least one pseudogene has been identified at 17p12-p11. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100979	 The protein encoded by this gene is one of at least two lipid transfer proteins found in human plasma. The encoded protein transfers phospholipids from triglyceride-rich lipoproteins to high density lipoprotein (HDL). In addition to regulating the size of HDL particles, this protein may be involved in cholesterol metabolism. At least two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188389	 This gene encodes a cell surface membrane protein of the immunoglobulin superfamily. This protein is expressed in pro-B-cells and is thought to play a role in their differentiation. In mice, expression of this gene is induced in the thymus when anti-CD3 antibodies are injected and large numbers of thymocytes undergo apoptosis. Mice deficient for this gene bred on a BALB/c background developed dilated cardiomyopathy and died from congestive heart failure. These studies suggest that this gene product may also be important in T cell function and contribute to the prevention of autoimmune diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137252	 The protein encoded by this gene is a G-protein coupled receptor involved in the regulation of feeding behavior. The encoded protein binds the hypothalamic neuropeptides orexin A and orexin B. A related gene (HCRTR1) encodes a G-protein coupled receptor that selectively binds orexin A. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000171428	 This gene is one of two arylamine N-acetyltransferase (NAT) genes in the human genome, and is orthologous to the mouse and rat Nat2 genes. The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the transfer of an acetyl group from acetyl-CoA to various arylamine and hydrazine substrates. This enzyme helps metabolize drugs and other xenobiotics, and functions in folate catabolism. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000156574	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TGF-beta superfamily. Studies of the mouse counterpart suggested that this gene may be essential for mesoderm formation and subsequent organization of axial structures in early embryonic development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000066468	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor receptor family, where amino acid sequence is highly conserved between members and throughout evolution. FGFR family members differ from one another in their ligand affinities and tissue distribution. A full-length representative protein consists of an extracellular region, composed of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning segment and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain. The extracellular portion of the protein interacts with fibroblast growth factors, setting in motion a cascade of downstream signals, ultimately influencing mitogenesis and differentiation. This particular family member is a high-affinity receptor for acidic, basic and/or keratinocyte growth factor, depending on the isoform. Mutations in this gene are associated with Crouzon syndrome, Pfeiffer syndrome, Craniosynostosis, Apert syndrome, Jackson-Weiss syndrome, Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome, Saethre-Chotzen syndrome, and syndromic craniosynostosis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000168229	 The protein encoded by this gene is a G-protein-coupled receptor. It has been shown to function as a prostanoid DP receptor. The activity of this receptor is mainly mediated by G-S proteins that stimulate adenylate cyclase resulting in an elevation of intracellular cAMP and Ca2+.  Knockout studies in mice suggest that the ligand of this receptor,  prostaglandin D2 (PGD2), functions as a mast cell-derived mediator to trigger asthmatic responses. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184194	 This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. This protein contains 7 transmembrane domains and conserved cysteine residues. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000077274	 Calpains are ubiquitous, well-conserved family of calcium-dependent, cysteine proteases. The calpain proteins are heterodimers consisting of an invariant small subunit and variable large subunits. The large subunit possesses a cysteine protease domain, and both subunits possess calcium-binding domains. Calpains have been implicated in neurodegenerative processes, as their activation can be triggered by calcium influx and oxidative stress. The protein encoded by this gene is highly expressed in the placenta. Its C-terminal region lacks any homology to the calmodulin-like domain of other calpains. The protein lacks critical active site residues and thus is suggested to be proteolytically inactive. The protein may play a role in tumor formation by inhibiting apoptosis and promoting angiogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000132963	 The protein encoded by this gene is a molecular chaperone that binds 20S preproteasome components and is essential for 20S proteasome formation. The 20S proteasome is the proteolytically active component of the 26S proteasome complex. The encoded protein is degraded before the maturation of the 20S proteasome is complete. A variant in the 5' UTR of this gene has been associated with KLICK syndrome, a rare skin disorder.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000101311	 This gene encodes a member of the fermitin family, and contains a FERM domain and a pleckstrin homology domain. The encoded protein is involved in integrin signaling and linkage of the actin cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix. Mutations in this gene have been linked to Kindler syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000130638	 This gene encodes a protein that may function in neuron survival, neuron differentiation, and neuritogenesis. These roles may be carried out via activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade. Expansion of a pentanucleotide repeat in an intronic region of this locus has been associated with spinocerebellar ataxia, type 10. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000174106	 This locus encodes a LEM domain-containing protein. The encoded protein functions to antagonize transforming growth factor-beta signaling at the inner nuclear membrane. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Mutations in this gene have been associated with osteopoikilosis, Buschke-Ollendorff syndrome and melorheostosis.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000112599	 The protein encoded by this gene is a calcium-binding protein that activates photoreceptor guanylate cyclases. This gene may have arisen due to a gene duplication event since there is a highly similar gene clustered with it on chromosome 6. Mutations in this gene can cause a form of retinitis pigmentosa. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000154134	 This gene is a member of the Roundabout (ROBO) gene family that controls neurite outgrowth, growth cone guidance, and axon fasciculation. ROBO proteins are a subfamily of the immunoglobulin transmembrane receptor superfamily. SLIT proteins 1-3, a family of secreted chemorepellants, are ligands for ROBO proteins and SLIT/ROBO interactions regulate myogenesis, leukocyte migration, kidney morphogenesis, angiogenesis, and vasculogenesis in addition to neurogenesis. This gene, ROBO3, has a putative extracellular domain with five immunoglobulin (Ig)-like loops and three fibronectin (Fn) type III motifs, a transmembrane segment, and a cytoplasmic tail with three conserved signaling motifs: CC0, CC2, and CC3 (CC for conserved cytoplasmic). Unlike other ROBO family members, ROBO3 lacks motif CC1. The ROBO3 gene regulates axonal navigation at the ventral midline of the neural tube. In mouse, loss of Robo3 results in a complete failure of commissural axons to cross the midline throughout the spinal cord and the hindbrain. Mutations ROBO3 result in horizontal gaze palsy with progressive scoliosis (HGPPS); an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by congenital absence of horizontal gaze, progressive scoliosis, and failure of the corticospinal and somatosensory axon tracts to cross the midline in the medulla. Alternative transcript variants have been described but have not been experimentally validated. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000124089	 This gene encodes a G-protein-coupled receptor for melanocyte-stimulating hormone and adrenocorticotropic hormone that is expressed in tissues other than the adrenal cortex and melanocytes. This gene maps to the same region as the locus for benign neonatal epilepsy. Mice deficient for this gene have increased fat mass despite decreased food intake, suggesting a role for this gene product in the regulation of energy homeostasis. Mutations in this gene are associated with a susceptibility to obesity in humans. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148053	 This gene encodes a member of the neurotrophic tyrosine receptor kinase (NTRK) family. This kinase is a membrane-bound receptor that, upon neurotrophin binding, phosphorylates itself and members of the MAPK pathway. Signalling through this kinase leads to cell differentiation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with obesity and mood disorders. Alternate transcriptional splice variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102048	 This gene encodes a member of the ankyrin repeat and suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) box protein family. Members of this family can interact with the elongin B-C adapter complex via their SOCS box domain and further complex with the cullin and ring box proteins to form E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes. They may function to mediate the substrate-recognition of the E3 ubiquitin ligases. A transcribed pseudogene of this gene has been identified on chromosome 15. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000186951	 Peroxisome proliferators include hypolipidemic drugs, herbicides, leukotriene antagonists, and plasticizers; this term arises because they induce an increase in the size and number of peroxisomes. Peroxisomes are subcellular organelles found in plants and animals that contain enzymes for respiration and for cholesterol and lipid metabolism. The action of peroxisome proliferators is thought to be mediated via specific receptors, called PPARs, which belong to the steroid hormone receptor superfamily. PPARs affect the expression of target genes involved in cell proliferation, cell differentiation and in immune and inflammation responses. Three closely related subtypes (alpha, beta/delta, and gamma) have been identified. This gene encodes the subtype PPAR-alpha, which is a nuclear transcription factor. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene, although the full-length nature of only two has been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000154646	 This gene encodes an enzyme that converts the pancreatic proenzyme trypsinogen to trypsin, which activates other proenzymes including chymotrypsinogen and procarboxypeptidases. The precursor protein is cleaved into two chains that form a heterodimer linked by a disulfide bond. This protein is a member of the trypsin family of peptidases. Mutations in this gene cause enterokinase deficiency, a malabsorption disorder characterized by diarrhea and failure to thrive. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000103546	 This gene encodes a member of the sodium:neurotransmitter symporter family. This member is a multi-pass membrane protein, which is responsible for reuptake of norepinephrine into presynaptic nerve terminals and is a regulator of norepinephrine homeostasis. Mutations in this gene cause orthostatic intolerance, a syndrome characterized by lightheadedness, fatigue, altered mentation and syncope. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000168484	 This gene encodes the pulmonary-associated surfactant protein C (SPC), an extremely hydrophobic surfactant protein essential for lung function and homeostasis after birth. Pulmonary surfactant is a surface-active lipoprotein complex composed of 90% lipids and 10% proteins which include plasma proteins and apolipoproteins SPA, SPB, SPC and SPD. The surfactant is secreted by the alveolar cells of the lung and maintains the stability of pulmonary tissue by reducing the surface tension of fluids that coat the lung. Multiple mutations in this gene have been identified, which cause pulmonary surfactant metabolism dysfunction type 2, also called pulmonary alveolar proteinosis due to surfactant protein C deficiency, and are associated with interstitial lung disease in older infants, children, and adults. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000204262	 This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillar collagens. Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be composed of one or more types of alpha chains. Type V collagen is found in tissues containing type I collagen and appears to regulate the assembly of heterotypic fibers composed of both type I and type V collagen. This gene product is closely related to type XI collagen and it is possible that the collagen chains of types V and XI constitute a single collagen type with tissue-specific chain combinations. Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, types I and II. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000023839	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein is expressed in the canalicular (apical) part of the hepatocyte and functions in biliary transport. Substrates include anticancer drugs such as vinblastine; therefore, this protein appears to contribute to drug resistance in mammalian cells. Several different mutations in this gene have been observed in patients with Dubin-Johnson syndrome (DJS), an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by conjugated hyperbilirubinemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000067141	 This gene encodes a cell surface protein that is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein consists of four N-terminal immunoglobulin-like domains, six fibronectin type III domains, a transmembrane domain and a C-terminal internal domain that shares homology with the tumor suppressor candidate gene DCC. This protein may be involved in cell growth and differentiation and in cell-cell adhesion. Defects in this gene are associated with cell proliferation in certain cancers. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000170099	 This gene encodes an alpha-globulin protein with corticosteroid-binding properties. This is the major transport protein for glucorticoids and progestins in the blood of most vertebrates. The gene localizes to a chromosomal region containing several closely related serine protease inhibitors which may have evolved by duplication events. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168878	 This gene encodes the pulmonary-associated surfactant protein B (SPB), an amphipathic surfactant protein essential for lung function and homeostasis after birth. Pulmonary surfactant is a surface-active lipoprotein complex composed of 90% lipids and 10% proteins which include plasma proteins and apolipoproteins SPA, SPB, SPC and SPD. The surfactant is secreted by the alveolar cells of the lung and maintains the stability of pulmonary tissue by reducing the surface tension of fluids that coat the lung. The SPB enhances the rate of spreading and increases the stability of surfactant monolayers in vitro. Multiple mutations in this gene have been identified, which cause pulmonary surfactant metabolism dysfunction type 1, also called pulmonary alveolar proteinosis due to surfactant protein B deficiency, and are associated with fatal respiratory distress in the neonatal period. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000164087	 POC1 proteins contain an N-terminal WD40 domain and a C-terminal coiled coil domain and are part of centrosomes. They play an important role in basal body and cilia formation. This gene encodes one of the two POC1 proteins found in humans. Mutations in this gene result in short stature, onychodysplasia, facial dysmorphism, and hypotrichosis (SOFT) syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000198690	 This gene encodes a member of the myotubularin-related class 1 cysteine-based protein tyrosine phosphatases. The encoded protein may be catalytically inactive. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000038427	 This gene is a member of the aggrecan/versican proteoglycan family. The protein encoded is a large chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan and is a major component of the extracellular matrix. This protein is involved in cell adhesion, proliferation, proliferation, migration and angiogenesis and plays a central role in tissue morphogenesis and maintenance. Mutations in this gene are the cause of Wagner syndrome type 1. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000213397	 This gene encodes a subunit of the augmin complex, which regulates centrosome and mitotic spindle integrity, and is necessary for the completion of cytokinesis. The encoded protein was identified by interaction with ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase 37. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000198889	 This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168269	 This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors which is characterized by a distinct forkhead domain. The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, it is possible that this gene plays an important role in the development of the cochlea and vestibulum, as well as embryogenesis. Mutations in this gene may be associated with the common cavity phenotype. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115339	 This gene encodes UDP-GalNAc transferase 3, a member of the GalNAc-transferases family. This family transfers an N-acetyl galactosamine to the hydroxyl group of a serine or threonine residue in the first step of O-linked oligosaccharide biosynthesis. Individual GalNAc-transferases have distinct activities and initiation of O-glycosylation is regulated by a repertoire of GalNAc-transferases.  The protein encoded by this gene is highly homologous to other family members, however the enzymes have different substrate specificities. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143278	 This gene encodes coagulation factor XIII B subunit. Coagulation factor XIII is the last zymogen to become activated in the blood coagulation cascade. Plasma factor XIII is a heterotetramer composed of 2 A subunits and 2 B subunits. The A subunits have catalytic function, and the B subunits do not have enzymatic activity and may serve as a plasma carrier molecules. Platelet factor XIII is comprised only of 2 A subunits, which are identical to those of plasma origin. Upon activation by the cleavage of the activation peptide by thrombin and in the presence of calcium ion, the plasma factor XIII dissociates its B subunits and yields the same active enzyme, factor XIIIa, as platelet factor XIII. This enzyme acts as a transglutaminase to catalyze the formation of gamma-glutamyl-epsilon-lysine crosslinking between fibrin molecules, thus stabilizing the fibrin clot. Factor XIII deficiency is classified into two categories: type I deficiency, characterized by the lack of both the A and B subunits; and type II deficiency, characterized by the lack of the A subunit alone. These defects can result in a lifelong bleeding tendency, defective wound healing, and habitual abortion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143226	 This gene encodes one member of a family of immunoglobulin Fc receptor genes found on the surface of many immune response cells. The protein encoded by this gene is a cell surface receptor found on phagocytic cells such as macrophages and neutrophils, and is involved in the process of phagocytosis and clearing of immune complexes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000160867	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor receptor family, where amino acid sequence is highly conserved between members and throughout evolution. FGFR family members differ from one another in their ligand affinities and tissue distribution. A full-length representative protein would consist of an extracellular region, composed of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning segment and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain. The extracellular portion of the protein interacts with fibroblast growth factors, setting in motion a cascade of downstream signals, ultimately influencing mitogenesis and differentiation. The genomic organization of this gene, compared to members 1-3, encompasses 18 exons rather than 19 or 20. Although alternative splicing has been observed, there is no evidence that the C-terminal half of the IgIII domain of this protein varies between three alternate forms, as indicated for members 1-3. This particular family member preferentially binds acidic fibroblast growth factor and, although its specific function is unknown, it is overexpressed in gynecological tumor samples, suggesting a role in breast and ovarian tumorigenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108515	 This gene encodes one of the three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals. This isoenzyme is found in skeletal muscle cells in the adult where it may play a role in muscle development and regeneration. A switch from alpha enolase to beta enolase occurs in muscle tissue during development in rodents. Mutations in this gene have be associated glycogen storage disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000165370	 The protein encoded by this gene is an orphan G protein-coupled receptor of unknown function. The encoded protein is a member of a family of proteins that contain seven transmembrane domains and transduce extracellular signals through heterotrimeric G proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000099399	 This gene is a member of the MAGEB gene family. The members of this family have their entire coding sequences located in the last exon, and the encoded proteins show 50 to 68% sequence identity to each other. The promoters and first exons of the MAGEB genes show considerable variability, suggesting that the existence of this gene family enables the same function to be expressed under different transcriptional controls. This gene is localized in the DSS (dosage-sensitive sex reversal) critical region. It is expressed in testis and placenta, and in a significant fraction of tumors of various histological types. The MAGEB genes are clustered on chromosome Xp22-p21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSGR0000214717	 This gene is located in the pseudoautosomal region 1 (PAR1) of X and Y chromosomes. It was earlier identified as a gene with similarity to Ac transposable elements, however, was found not to have transposase activity. Later studies show that this gene product is localized in the nucleus and functions as a transcription factor. It binds to DNA elements found in the promoter regions of several genes related to cell proliferation, such as histone H1, hence may have a role in regulating genes related to cell proliferation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants with different 5' untranslated region have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000200182	 Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein polymerase that maintains telomere ends by addition of the telomere repeat TTAGGG. The enzyme consists of a protein component with reverse transcriptase activity, and an RNA component, encoded by this gene, that serves as a template for the telomere repeat. Telomerase expression plays a role in cellular senescence, as it is normally repressed in postnatal somatic cells resulting in progressive shortening of telomeres. Deregulation of telomerase expression in somatic cells may be involved in oncogenesis. Studies in mouse suggest that telomerase also participates in chromosomal repair, since de novo synthesis of telomere repeats may occur at double-stranded breaks. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant dyskeratosis congenita, and may also be associated with some cases of aplastic anemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147145	 This gene encodes a member of the lysophosphatidic acid receptor family. It may also be related to the P2Y receptors, a family of receptors that bind purine and pyrimidine nucleotides and are coupled to G proteins. The encoded protein may play a role in monocytic differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000184258	 Autoantibodies directed against the protein encoded by this intronless gene have been found in some patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. The encoded protein contains several hexapeptide repeats. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000149781	 Kindlins are a small family of proteins that mediate protein-protein interactions involved in integrin activation and thereby have a role in cell adhesion, migration, differentiation, and proliferation. The protein encoded by this gene has a key role in the regulation of hemostasis and thrombosis. This protein may also help maintain the membrane skeleton of erythrocytes. Mutations in this gene cause the autosomal recessive leukocyte adhesion deficiency syndrome-III (LAD-III). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000151062	 This gene encodes a member of the alpha-2/delta subunit family, a protein in the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization and consist of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. Various versions of each of these subunits exist, either expressed from similar genes or the result of alternative splicing. Research on a highly similar protein in rabbit suggests the protein described in this record is cleaved into alpha-2 and delta subunits. Alternate transcriptional splice variants of this gene have been observed but have not been thoroughly characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000179111	 This gene encodes a member of the hairy and enhancer of split family of bHLH transcription factors. The mouse ortholog of this gene is regulated by Notch signaling. The protein functions as a transcriptional repressor, and is implicated in correct patterning of the axial skeleton. A mutation in this gene has been shown to result in spondylocostal dysostosis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000266173	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a STE20-like kinase domain, but lacks several residues that are critical for catalytic activity, so it is termed a 'pseudokinase'. The protein forms a heterotrimeric complex with serine/threonine kinase 11 (STK11, also known as LKB1) and the scaffolding protein calcium binding protein 39 (CAB39, also known as MO25). The protein activates STK11 leading to the phosphorylation of both proteins and excluding STK11 from the nucleus. The protein is necessary for STK11-induced G1 cell cycle arrest. A mutation in this gene has been shown to result in polyhydramnios, megalencephaly, and symptomatic epilepsy (PMSE) syndrome. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Additional transcript variants have been described but their full-length nature is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000170892	 This gene encodes a catalytic subunit of the tRNA splicing endonuclease, which catalyzes the removal of introns from precursor tRNAs. The endonuclease complex is also associated with a pre-mRNA 3-prime end processing factor. A mutation in this gene results in the neurological disorder pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 2. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000101247	 The NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex (complex I) of the mitochondrial respiratory chain catalyzes the transfer of electrons from NADH to ubiquinone, and consists of at least 43 subunits. The complex is located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that is associated with the matrix face of the mitochondrial inner membrane and is required for complex I assembly. A mutation in this gene results in mitochondrial complex I deficiency. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000138688	 This gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 4 in a region that is associated with susceptibility to celiac disease. The encoded protein is similar to a Chinese hamster protein that is associated with spermatocyte and adipocyte differentiation. The C-terminus of the protein is also similar to a Caenorhabditis elegans protein that plays a role in lipid storage. In mammals, this protein is thought to function in the regulation of epithelial growth and differentiation, and in tumor development. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000108091	 This gene encodes a coiled-coil domain-containing protein. The encoded protein is ubiquitously expressed and may function as a tumor suppressor. A chromosomal rearrangement resulting in the expression of a fusion gene containing a portion of this gene and the intracellular kinase-encoding domain of the ret proto-oncogene is the cause of thyroid papillary carcinoma.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000164651	 The protein encoded by this gene is an SP family transcription factor that in mouse has been shown to be essential for proper limb development. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000006704	 The protein encoded by this gene contains five GTF2I-like repeats and each repeat possesses a potential helix-loop-helix (HLH) motif. It may have the ability to interact with other HLH-proteins and function as a transcription factor or as a positive transcriptional regulator under the control of Retinoblastoma protein. This gene plays a role in craniofacial and cognitive development and mutations have been associated with Williams-Beuren syndrome, a multisystem developmental disorder caused by deletion of multiple genes at 7q11.23. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000122585	 This gene encodes a neuropeptide that is widely expressed in the central nervous system and influences many physiological processes, including cortical excitability, stress response, food intake, circadian rhythms, and cardiovascular function. The neuropeptide functions through G protein-coupled receptors to inhibit adenylyl cyclase, activate mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), regulate intracellular calcium levels, and activate potassium channels. A polymorphism in this gene resulting in a change of leucine 7 to proline in the signal peptide is associated with elevated cholesterol levels, higher alcohol consumption, and may be a risk factor for various metabolic and cardiovascular diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000080644	 This locus encodes a member of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor family of proteins. Members of this family of proteins form pentameric complexes comprised of both alpha and beta subunits. This locus encodes an alpha-type subunit, as it contains characteristic adjacent cysteine residues. The encoded protein is a ligand-gated ion channel that likely plays a role in neurotransmission. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with an increased risk of smoking initiation and an increased susceptibility to lung cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000257138	 This gene encodes a seven-transmembrane G protein-coupled receptor that controls the ability to taste glucosinolates, a family of bitter-tasting compounds found in plants of the Brassica sp. Synthetic compounds phenylthiocarbamide (PTC) and 6-n-propylthiouracil (PROP) have been identified as ligands for this receptor and have been used to test the genetic diversity of this gene. Although several allelic forms of this gene have been identified worldwide, there are two predominant common forms (taster and non-taster) found outside of Africa. These alleles differ at three nucleotide positions resulting in amino acid changes in the protein (A49P, A262V, and V296I) with the amino acid combination PAV identifying the taster variant (and AVI identifying the non-taster variant). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000174417	 This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor for thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). Upon binding to TRH, this receptor activates the inositol phospholipid-calcium-protein kinase C transduction pathway. Mutations in this gene have been associated with generalized thyrotropin-releasing hormone resistance. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000144962	 This gene encodes a testis-specific protein that belongs to the tetratricopeptide repeat-like superfamily. The encoded protein localizes to the Golgi apparatus and may play a role in spermatogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000183690	 This gene encodes a protein which contains three DM10 domains and three calcium-binding EF-hand motifs. A related protein is encoded by a gene on chromosome 6. It has been suggested that both proteins are involved in the development of epilepsy (PMID: 15258581, 16112844) and that this gene may be associated with fear recognition in individuals with Turner syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000111046	 The protein encoded by this gene is a probable basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) DNA binding protein involved in muscle differentiation. The encoded protein likely acts as a heterodimer with another bHLH protein. Defects in this gene are a cause of autosomal dominant centronuclear myopathy (ADCNM). [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000120802	 The protein encoded by this gene resides in the nucleus and may play a role in the assembly of the nuclear lamina, and thus help maintain the structural organization of the nuclear envelope. It may function as a receptor for the attachment of lamin filaments to the inner nuclear membrane. Mutations in this gene are associated with dilated cardiomyopathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000134569	 This gene encodes a member of the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein family. The encoded protein may be a regulator of Wnt signaling. Mutations in this gene are associated with Cenani-Lenz syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000172752	 The protein encoded by this gene is a collagen that contains N- and C-terminal von Willebrand factor A-like domains. The encoded protein may interact with the alpha 1 and alpha 2 chains of collagen VI to form the complete collagen VI trimer. Sequence polymorphisms in this gene have been linked to atopic dermatitis (eczema). Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other probably not protein-coding, have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000135517	 Major intrinsic protein is a member of the water-transporting aquaporins as well as the original member of the MIP family of channel proteins. The function of the fiber cell membrane protein encoded by this gene is undetermined, yet this protein is speculated to play a role in intracellular communication. The MIP protein is expressed in the ocular lens and is required for correct lens function. This gene has been mapped among aquaporins AQP2, AQP5, and AQP6, in a potential gene cluster at 12q13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166863	 This gene encodes a member of the tachykinin family of secreted neuropeptides. The encoded protein is primarily expressed in the central and peripheral nervous system and functions as a neurotransmitter. This protein is the ligand for the neurokinin-3 receptor. This protein is also expressed in the outer syncytiotrophoblast of the placenta and may be associated with pregnancy-induced hypertension and pre-eclampsia. Mutations in this gene are associated with normosmic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000121807	 This gene encodes two isoforms of a receptor for monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, a chemokine which specifically mediates monocyte chemotaxis. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 is involved in monocyte infiltration in inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis as well as in the inflammatory response against tumors. The receptors encoded by this gene mediate agonist-dependent calcium mobilization and inhibition of adenylyl cyclase. This gene is located in the chemokine receptor gene cluster region. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants are expressed by the gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000131828	 The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial multienzyme complex that catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2), and provides the primary link between glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. The PDH complex is composed of multiple copies of three enzymatic components: pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3). The E1 enzyme is a heterotetramer of two alpha and two beta subunits. This gene encodes the E1 alpha 1 subunit containing the E1 active site, and plays a key role in the function of the PDH complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with pyruvate dehydrogenase E1-alpha deficiency and X-linked Leigh syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000121691	 This gene encodes catalase, a key antioxidant enzyme in the bodies defense against oxidative stress. Catalase is a heme enzyme that is present in the peroxisome of nearly all aerobic cells. Catalase converts the reactive oxygen species hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen and thereby mitigates the toxic effects of hydrogen peroxide. Oxidative stress is hypothesized to play a role in the development of many chronic or late-onset diseases such as diabetes, asthma, Alzheimer's disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and cancers. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with decreases in catalase activity but, to date, acatalasemia is the only disease known to be caused by this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000198668	 This gene encodes a member of the EF-hand calcium-binding protein family. It is one of three genes which encode an identical calcium binding protein which is one of the four subunits of phosphorylase kinase. Two pseudogenes have been identified on chromosome 7 and X. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000163697	 The protein encoded by this gene interacts with the cytoplasmic domains of amyloid beta (A4) precursor protein and amyloid beta (A4) precursor-like protein 2. This protein contains two phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domains, which are thought to function in signal transduction. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with Alzheimer's disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000137700	 This gene regulates glucose-6-phosphate transport from the cytoplasm to the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum, in order to maintain glucose homeostasis. It also plays a role in ATP-mediated calcium sequestration in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum. Mutations in this gene have been associated with various forms of glycogen storage disease. Alternative splicing in this gene results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000177689	 This gene encodes a member of the B subfamily of the melanoma associated antigen protein family. The encoded protein is specifically expressed in testis and tumor cells. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000092067	 The protein encoded by this gene is a bZIP transcription factor which can bind as a homodimer to certain DNA regulatory regions. It can also form heterodimers with the related protein CEBP-delta. The encoded protein may be essential for terminal differentiation and functional maturation of committed granulocyte progenitor cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Specific Granule Deficiency, a rare congenital disorder. Multiple variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of only one has been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000013619	 This gene encodes a mastermind-like domain containing protein. This protein may function as a transcriptional co-activator. Mutations in this gene are the cause of X-linked hypospadias type 2. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000176387	 There are at least two isozymes of the corticosteroid 11-beta-dehydrogenase, a microsomal enzyme complex responsible for the interconversion of cortisol and cortisone. The type I isozyme has both 11-beta-dehydrogenase (cortisol to cortisone) and 11-oxoreductase (cortisone to cortisol) activities. The type II isozyme, encoded by this gene, has only 11-beta-dehydrogenase activity. In aldosterone-selective epithelial tissues such as the kidney, the type II isozyme catalyzes the glucocorticoid cortisol to the inactive metabolite cortisone, thus preventing illicit activation of the mineralocorticoid receptor. In tissues that do not express the mineralocorticoid receptor, such as the placenta and testis, it protects cells from the growth-inhibiting and/or pro-apoptotic effects of cortisol, particularly during embryonic development. Mutations in this gene cause the syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess and hypertension. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000104973	 This gene encodes a component of the transcriptional coactivator complex termed the Mediator complex. This complex is required for transcription of most RNA polymerase II-dependent genes. The encoded protein plays a role in chromatin modification and in preinitiation complex assembly. Mutations in this gene are associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2B2. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000183826	 This locus encodes a BTB/POZ domain-containing protein. This domain is known to be involved in protein-protein interactions. Polymorphisms at this locus have been reported to be associated with susceptibility to Restless Legs Syndrome and may also be associated with Tourette Syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000107949	 This gene product was isolated on the basis of its interaction with BRCA2 and p21 proteins. It is an evolutionarily conserved nuclear protein with multiple interacting domains. The N-terminal half shares moderate homology with regions of calmodulin and M-calpain, suggesting that it may also bind calcium. Functional studies indicate that this protein may be an important cofactor for BRCA2 in tumor suppression, and a modulator of CDK2 kinase activity via p21. This protein has also been implicated in the regulation of BRCA2 and RAD51 nuclear focus formation, double-strand break-induced homologous recombination, and cell cycle progression. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170745	 Voltage-gated potassium channels form the largest and most diversified class of ion channels and are present in both excitable and nonexcitable cells. Their main functions are associated with the regulation of the resting membrane potential and the control of the shape and frequency of action potentials. The alpha subunits are of 2 types: those that are functional by themselves and those that are electrically silent but capable of modulating the activity of specific functional alpha subunits. The protein encoded by this gene is not functional by itself but can form heteromultimers with member 1 and with member 2 (and possibly other members) of the Shab-related subfamily of potassium voltage-gated channel proteins. This gene belongs to the S subfamily of the potassium channel family. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148180	 The protein encoded by this gene binds to the 'plus' ends of actin monomers and filaments to prevent monomer exchange. The encoded calcium-regulated protein functions in both assembly and disassembly of actin filaments. Defects in this gene are a cause of familial amyloidosis Finnish type (FAF). Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000179085	 Dolichol-phosphate mannose (Dol-P-Man) serves as a donor of mannosyl residues on the lumenal side of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Lack of Dol-P-Man results in defective surface expression of GPI-anchored proteins. Dol-P-Man is synthesized from GDP-mannose and dolichol-phosphate on the cytosolic side of the ER by the enzyme dolichyl-phosphate mannosyltransferase. The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of dolichyl-phosphate mannosyltransferase and acts as a stabilizer subunit of the dolichyl-phosphate mannosyltransferase complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143224	 This gene encodes the penultimate enzyme of heme biosynthesis, which catalyzes the 6-electron oxidation of protoporphyrinogen IX to form protoporphyrin IX. Mutations in this gene cause variegate porphyria, an autosomal dominant disorder of heme metabolism resulting from a deficiency in protoporphyrinogen oxidase, an enzyme located on the inner mitochondrial membrane. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000018510	 This gene is a member of the FAD-binding oxidoreductase/transferase type 4 family. It encodes a protein that catalyzes the second step of ether lipid biosynthesis in which acyl-dihydroxyacetonephosphate (DHAP) is converted to alkyl-DHAP by the addition of a long chain alcohol and the removal of a long-chain acid anion. The protein is localized to the inner aspect of the peroxisomal membrane and requires FAD as a cofactor. Mutations in this gene have been associated with rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata, type 3 and Zellweger syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110711	 The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for aryl hydrocarbons and a ligand-activated transcription factor. The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm as part of a multiprotein complex, but upon binding of ligand is transported to the nucleus. This protein can regulate the expression of many xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes. Also, the encoded protein can bind specifically to and inhibit the activity of hepatitis B virus. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000167552	 Microtubules of the eukaryotic cytoskeleton perform essential and diverse functions and are composed of a heterodimer of alpha and beta tubulins. The genes encoding these microtubule constituents belong to the tubulin superfamily, which is composed of six distinct families. Genes from the alpha, beta and gamma tubulin families are found in all eukaryotes. The alpha and beta tubulins represent the major components of microtubules, while gamma tubulin plays a critical role in the nucleation of microtubule assembly. There are multiple alpha and beta tubulin genes, which are highly conserved among species. This gene encodes alpha tubulin and is highly similar to the mouse and rat Tuba1 genes. Northern blotting studies have shown that the gene expression is predominantly found in morphologically differentiated neurologic cells. This gene is one of three alpha-tubulin genes in a cluster on chromosome 12q. Mutations in this gene cause lissencephaly type 3 (LIS3) - a neurological condition characterized by microcephaly, mental retardation, and early-onset epilepsy and caused by defective neuronal migration. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000107611	 Cubilin (CUBN) acts as a receptor for intrinsic factor-vitamin B12 complexes. The role of receptor is supported by the presence of 27 CUB domains. Cubulin is located within the epithelium of intestine and kidney. Mutations in CUBN may play a role in autosomal recessive megaloblastic anemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196136	 The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma protease inhibitor and member of the serine protease inhibitor class. Polymorphisms in this protein appear to be tissue specific and influence protease targeting. Variations in this protein's sequence have been implicated in Alzheimer's disease, and deficiency of this protein has been associated with liver disease. Mutations have been identified in patients with Parkinson disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000152266	 The protein encoded by this gene is a hormone secreted by parathyroid cells. This hormone elevates blood Ca2+ level by dissolving the salts in bone and preventing their renal excretion. Defects in this gene are a cause of familial isolated hypoparathyroidism (FIH). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000079482	 This gene encodes a Rho-GTPase-activating protein that promotes GTP hydrolysis of Rho subfamily members. Rho proteins are important mediators of intracellular signal transduction, which affects cell migration and cell morphogenesis. Mutations in this gene are responsible for OPHN1-related X-linked mental retardation with cerebellar hypoplasia and distinctive facial dysmorhphism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160299	 The protein encoded by this gene binds to calmodulin and is expressed in the centrosome. It is an integral component of the pericentriolar material (PCM). The protein contains a series of coiled-coil domains and a highly conserved PCM targeting motif called the PACT domain near its C-terminus. The protein interacts with the microtubule nucleation component gamma-tubulin and is likely important to normal functioning of the centrosomes, cytoskeleton, and cell-cycle progression. Mutations in this gene cause Seckel syndrome-4 and microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100099	 This gene encodes a protein component of biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complexes (BLOC). BLOC complexes are important for the formation of endosomal-lysosomal organelles such as melanosomes and platelet dense granules. Mutations in this gene result in subtype 4 of Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome, a form of albinism. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000124067	 This gene encodes a member of the SLC12A transporter family. The encoded protein mediates the coupled movement of potassium and chloride ions across the plasma membrane. This gene is expressed ubiquitously. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000104725	 Neurofilaments are type IV intermediate filament heteropolymers composed of light, medium, and heavy chains. Neurofilaments comprise the axoskeleton and they functionally maintain the neuronal caliber. They may also play a role in intracellular transport to axons and dendrites. This gene encodes the light chain neurofilament protein. Mutations in this gene cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease types 1F (CMT1F) and 2E (CMT2E), disorders of the peripheral nervous system that are characterized by distinct neuropathies. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome Y. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000230347	 This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000123360	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family, and PDE1 subfamily. Members of the PDE1 family are calmodulin-dependent PDEs that are stimulated by a calcium-calmodulin complex. This PDE has dual-specificity for the second messengers, cAMP and cGMP, with a preference for cGMP as a substrate. cAMP and cGMP function as key regulators of many important physiological processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000139567	 This gene encodes a type I cell-surface receptor for the TGF-beta superfamily of ligands. It shares with other type I receptors a high degree of similarity in serine-threonine kinase subdomains, a glycine- and serine-rich region (called the GS domain) preceding the kinase domain, and a short C-terminal tail. The encoded protein, sometimes termed ALK1, shares similar domain structures with other closely related ALK or activin receptor-like kinase proteins that form a subfamily of receptor serine/threonine kinases. Mutations in this gene are associated with hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 2, also known as Rendu-Osler-Weber syndrome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000257923	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the homeodomain family of DNA binding proteins. It may regulate gene expression, morphogenesis, and differentiation and it may also play a role in the cell cycle progession. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000137265	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the IRF (interferon regulatory factor) family of transcription factors, characterized by an unique tryptophan pentad repeat DNA-binding domain. The IRFs are important in the regulation of interferons in response to infection by virus, and in the regulation of interferon-inducible genes. This family member is lymphocyte specific and negatively regulates Toll-like-receptor (TLR) signaling that is central to the activation of innate and adaptive immune systems. A chromosomal translocation involving this gene and the IgH locus, t(6;14)(p25;q32), may be a cause of multiple myeloma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000150991	 This gene represents a ubiquitin gene, ubiquitin C. The encoded protein is a polyubiquitin precursor. Conjugation of ubiquitin monomers or polymers can lead to various effects within a cell, depending on the residues to which ubiquitin is conjugated. Ubiquitination has been associated with protein degradation, DNA repair, cell cycle regulation, kinase modification, endocytosis, and regulation of other cell signaling pathways. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000092969	 This gene encodes a member of the transforming growth factor beta (TGFB) family of cytokines, which are multifunctional peptides that regulate proliferation, differentiation, adhesion, migration, and other functions in many cell types by transducing their signal through combinations of transmembrane type I and type II receptors (TGFBR1 and TGFBR2) and their downstream effectors, the SMAD proteins. Disruption of the TGFB/SMAD pathway has been implicated in a variety of human cancers. The encoded protein is secreted and has suppressive effects of interleukin-2 dependent T-cell growth. Translocation t(1;7)(q41;p21) between this gene and HDAC9 is associated with Peters' anomaly, a congenital defect of the anterior chamber of the eye. The knockout mice lacking this gene show perinatal mortality and a wide range of developmental, including cardiac, defects. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000138061	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The enzyme encoded by this gene localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and metabolizes procarcinogens such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and 17beta-estradiol. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary congenital glaucoma; therefore it is thought that the enzyme also metabolizes a signaling molecule involved in eye development, possibly a steroid. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131470	 This gene encodes a protein that functions in meiotic recombination. It is a subunit of the PSMC3IP/MND1 complex, which interacts with PSMC3/TBP1 to stimulate DMC1- and RAD51-mediated strand exchange during meiosis. The protein encoded by this gene can also co-activate ligand-driven transcription mediated by estrogen, androgen, glucocorticoid, progesterone, and thyroid nuclear receptors. Mutations in this gene cause XX female gonadal dysgenesis. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000138109	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by rifampin. The enzyme is known to metabolize many xenobiotics, including phenytoin, tolbutamide, ibuprofen and S-warfarin. Studies identifying individuals who are poor metabolizers of phenytoin and tolbutamide suggest that this gene is polymorphic. The gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000009709	 This gene is a member of the paired box (PAX) family of transcription factors. Members of this gene family typically contain a paired box domain, an octapeptide, and a paired-type homeodomain. These genes play critical roles during fetal development and cancer growth. The specific function of the paired box 7 gene is unknown but speculated to involve tumor suppression since fusion of this gene with a forkhead domain family member has been associated with alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000159339	 This gene is a member of a gene family which encodes enzymes responsible for the conversion of arginine residues to citrulline residues. This gene may play a role in granulocyte and macrophage development leading to inflammation and immune response. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182185	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAD51 protein family. RAD51 family members are evolutionarily conserved proteins essential for DNA repair by homologous recombination. This protein has been shown to form a stable heterodimer with the family member RAD51C, which further interacts with the other family members, such as RAD51, XRCC2, and XRCC3. Overexpression of this gene was found to cause cell cycle G1 delay and cell apoptosis, which suggested a role of this protein in sensing DNA damage. At least three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. Rearrangements between this locus and high mobility group AT-hook 2 (HMGA2, GeneID 8091) have been observed in uterine leiomyomata. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000172575	 This gene is a member of a family of genes characterized by the presence of a Ras superfamily guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) domain. It functions as a diacylglycerol (DAG)-regulated nucleotide exchange factor specifically activating Ras through the exchange of bound GDP for GTP. It activates the Erk/MAP kinase cascade and regulates T-cells and B-cells development, homeostasis and differentiation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. Altered expression of the different isoforms of this protein may be a cause of susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132334	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been reported, one of which encodes a receptor-type PTP that possesses a short extracellular domain, a single transmembrane region, and two tandem intracytoplasmic catalytic domains; Another one encodes a PTP that contains a distinct hydrophilic N-terminus, and thus represents a nonreceptor-type isoform of this PTP. Studies of the similar gene in mice suggested the regulatory roles of this PTP in RAS related signal transduction pathways, cytokines induced SATA signaling, as well as the activation of voltage-gated K+ channels. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164951	 Pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1) is one of the three components (E1, E2, and E3) of the large pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. Pyruvate dehydrogenase kinases catalyze phosphorylation of serine residues of E1 to inactivate the E1 component and inhibit the complex. Pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphatases catalyze the dephosphorylation and activation of the E1 component to reverse the effects of pyruvate dehydrogenase kinases. Pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphatase is a heterodimer consisting of catalytic and regulatory subunits. Two catalytic subunits have been reported; one is predominantly expressed in skeletal muscle and another one is is much more abundant in the liver. The catalytic subunit, encoded by this gene, is the former, and belongs to the protein phosphatase 2C (PP2C) superfamily. Along with the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and pyruvate dehydrogenase kinases, this enzyme is located in the mitochondrial matrix. Mutation in this gene causes pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphatase deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000050628	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family. This protein is one of four receptors identified for prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). This receptor may have many biological functions, which involve digestion, nervous system, kidney reabsorption, and uterine contraction activities. Studies of the mouse counterpart suggest that this receptor may also mediate adrenocorticotropic hormone response as well as fever generation in response to exogenous and endogenous stimuli. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000183091	 This gene encodes nebulin, a giant protein component of the cytoskeletal matrix that coexists with the thick and thin filaments within the sarcomeres of skeletal muscle. In most vertebrates, nebulin accounts for 3 to 4% of the total myofibrillar protein. The encoded protein contains approximately 30-amino acid long modules that can be classified into 7 types and other repeated modules. Protein isoform sizes vary from 600 to 800 kD due to alternative splicing that is tissue-, species-,and developmental stage-specific. Of the 183 exons in the nebulin gene, at least 43 are alternatively spliced, although exons 143 and 144 are not found in the same transcript. Of the several thousand transcript variants predicted for nebulin, the RefSeq Project has decided to create three representative RefSeq records. Mutations in this gene are associated with recessive nemaline myopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000138675	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities, and are involved in a variety of biological processes, including embryonic development, cell growth, morphogenesis, tissue repair, tumor growth and invasion. This gene was identified as an oncogene, which confers transforming potential when transfected into mammalian cells. Targeted disruption of the homolog of this gene in mouse resulted in the phenotype of abnormally long hair, which suggested a function as an inhibitor of hair elongation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170231	 This gene encodes the ileal fatty acid binding protein. Fatty acid binding proteins are a family of small, highly conserved, cytoplasmic proteins that bind long-chain fatty acids and other hydrophobic ligands. FABP6 and FABP1 (the liver fatty acid binding protein) are also able to bind bile acids. It is thought that FABPs roles include fatty acid uptake, transport, and metabolism. Transcript variants generated by alternate transcription promoters and/or alternate splicing have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140675	 This gene encodes a member of the sodium glucose cotransporter family which are sodium-dependent glucose transport proteins. The encoded protein is the major cotransporter involved in glucose reabsorption in the kidney. Mutations in this gene are associated with renal glucosuria. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000141644	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of nuclear proteins related by the presence of a methyl-CpG binding domain (MBD). These proteins are capable of binding specifically to methylated DNA, and some members can also repress transcription from methylated gene promoters. This protein contains multiple domains: MBD at the N-terminus that functions both in binding to methylated DNA and in protein interactions; several CXXC-type zinc finger domains that mediate binding to non-methylated CpG dinucleotides; transcriptional repression domain (TRD) at the C-terminus that is involved in transcription repression and in protein interactions. Numerous alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000173598	 The protein encoded by this gene regulates the turnover of diphosphoinositol polyphosphates. The turnover of these high-energy diphosphoinositol polyphosphates represents a molecular switching activity with important regulatory consequences. Molecular switching by diphosphoinositol polyphosphates may contribute to regulating intracellular trafficking. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined. Isoforms DIPP2alpha and DIPP2beta are distinguishable from each other solely by DIPP2beta possessing one additional amino acid due to intron boundary skidding in alternate splicing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130635	 This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillar collagens. Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be composed of one or more types of alpha chains. Type V collagen is found in tissues containing type I collagen and appears to regulate the assembly of heterotypic fibers composed of both type I and type V collagen. This gene product is closely related to type XI collagen and it is possible that the collagen chains of types V and XI constitute a single collagen type with tissue-specific chain combinations. Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, types I and II. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126456	 This gene encodes a member of the interferon regulatory transcription factor (IRF) family. The encoded protein is found in an inactive cytoplasmic form that upon serine/threonine phosphorylation forms a complex with CREBBP. This complex translocates to the nucleus and activates the transcription of interferons alpha and beta, as well as other interferon-induced genes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000163913	 This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. This cytoplasmic protein contains seven WD repeats and an AF-2 domain which function by recruiting coregulatory molecules and in transcriptional activation. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167985	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein needed for the flavination of a succinate dehydrogenase complex subunit required for activity of the complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with paraganglioma.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000126016	 This gene belongs to the motin family of angiostatin binding proteins characterized by conserved coiled-coil domains and C-terminal PDZ binding motifs. The encoded protein is expressed predominantly in endothelial cells of capillaries as well as larger vessels of the placenta where it may mediate the inhibitory effect of angiostatin on tube formation and the migration of endothelial cells toward growth factors during the formation of new blood vessels. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100344	 The protein encoded by this gene is a triacylglycerol lipase that mediates triacylglycerol hydrolysis in adipocytes. The encoded protein, which appears to be membrane bound, may be involved in the balance of energy usage/storage in adipocytes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145354	 The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger protein that localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. The encoded protein binds an iron/sulfur cluster and may be involved in calcium homeostasis. Defects in this gene are a cause of Wolfram syndrome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000112280	 This gene encodes one of the three alpha chains of type IX collagen, which is a minor (5-20%) collagen component of hyaline cartilage. Type IX collagen is usually found in tissues containing type II collagen, a fibrillar collagen. Studies in knockout mice have shown that synthesis of the alpha 1 chain is essential for assembly of type IX collagen molecules, a heterotrimeric molecule, and that lack of type IX collagen is associated with early onset osteoarthritis. Mutations in this gene are associated with osteoarthritis in humans, with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia, 6, a form of chondrodysplasia, and with Stickler syndrome, a disease characterized by ophthalmic, orofacial, articular, and auditory defects. Two transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000142515	 Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiological functions. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicated in carcinogenesis and some have potential as novel cancer and other disease biomarkers. This gene is one of the fifteen kallikrein subfamily members located in a cluster on chromosome 19. Its protein product is a protease present in seminal plasma. It is thought to function normally in the liquefaction of seminal coagulum, presumably by hydrolysis of the high molecular mass seminal vesicle protein. Serum level of this protein, called PSA in the clinical setting, is useful in the diagnosis and monitoring of prostatic carcinoma. Alternate splicing of this gene generates several transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138795	 This gene encodes a transcription factor belonging to a family of proteins that share homology with the high mobility group protein-1. The protein encoded by this gene can bind to a functionally important site in the T-cell receptor-alpha enhancer, thereby conferring maximal enhancer activity. This transcription factor is involved in the Wnt signaling pathway, and it may function in hair cell differentiation and follicle morphogenesis. Mutations in this gene have been found in somatic sebaceous tumors. This gene has also been linked to other cancers, including androgen-independent prostate cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000105642	 Action potentials in vertebrate neurons are followed by an afterhyperpolarization (AHP) that may persist for several seconds and may have profound consequences for the firing pattern of the neuron. Each component of the AHP is kinetically distinct and is mediated by different calcium-activated potassium channels. The protein encoded by this gene is activated before membrane hyperpolarization and is thought to regulate neuronal excitability by contributing to the slow component of synaptic AHP. The encoded protein is an integral membrane protein that forms a voltage-independent calcium-activated channel with three other calmodulin-binding subunits. This gene is a member of the KCNN family of potassium channel genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157542	 Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where they participate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassium channel. The encoded protein, which has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell, is controlled by G-proteins and may be involved in the regulation of insulin secretion by glucose. It associates with two other G-protein-activated potassium channels to form a heteromultimeric pore-forming complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000040933	 This gene encodes an Mg++ independent enzyme that hydrolyzes the 4-position phosphate from the inositol ring of phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate, inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate, and inositol 3,4-bisphosphate. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000174562	 Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiological functions. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicated in carcinogenesis and some have potential as novel cancer and other disease biomarkers. This gene is one of the fifteen kallikrein subfamily members located in a cluster on chromosome 19. In prostate cancer, this gene has increased expression, which indicates its possible use as a diagnostic or prognostic marker for prostate cancer. The gene contains multiple polyadenylation sites and alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164815	 The origin recognition complex (ORC) is a highly conserved six subunit protein complex essential for the initiation of the DNA replication in eukaryotic cells. Studies in yeast demonstrated that ORC binds specifically to origins of replication and serves as a platform for the assembly of additional initiation factors such as Cdc6 and Mcm proteins. The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the ORC complex. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000146070	 The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted enzyme that catalyzes the degradation of platelet-activating factor to biologically inactive products. Defects in this gene are a cause of platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase deficiency. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000044090	 The protein encoded by this gene is a component of an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex. The encoded protein interacts with TP53, CUL9, and FBXW8 proteins. Defects in this gene are a cause of 3M syndrome type 1 (3M1). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000164414	 The protein encoded by this gene is found in the membrane of the Golgi apparatus, where it transports nucleotide sugars into the Golgi. One such nucleotide sugar is CMP-sialic acid, which is imported into the Golgi by the encoded protein and subsequently glycosylated. Defects in this gene are a cause of congenital disorder of glycosylation type 2F (CDG2F). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000122194	 The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted blood zymogen that is activated by proteolysis and converted to plasmin and angiostatin. Plasmin dissolves fibrin in blood clots and is an important protease in many other cellular processes while angiostatin inhibits angiogenesis. Defects in this gene are likely a cause of thrombophilia and ligneous conjunctivitis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000119715	 This gene encodes a protein with similarity to the estrogen receptor. Its function is unknown; however, a similar protein in mouse plays an essential role in placental development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000070182	 This locus encodes a member of the spectrin gene family. Spectrin proteins, along with ankyrin, play a role in cell membrane organization and stability. The protein encoded by this locus functions in stability of erythrocyte membranes, and mutations in this gene have been associated with spherocytosis type 2, hereditary elliptocytosis, and neonatal hemolytic anemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000067082	 This gene encodes a member of the Kruppel-like family of transcription factors. The zinc finger protein is a transcriptional activator, and functions as a tumor suppressor. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, some of which are implicated in carcinogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000156113	 MaxiK channels are large conductance, voltage and calcium-sensitive potassium channels which are fundamental to the control of smooth muscle tone and neuronal excitability. MaxiK channels can be formed by 2 subunits: the pore-forming alpha subunit, which is the product of this gene, and the modulatory beta subunit. Intracellular calcium regulates the physical association between the alpha and beta subunits. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130545	 This gene encodes a member of the Crumbs family of proteins. This protein may play a role in epithelial cell polarity and is associated with tight junctions at the apical surface of epithelial cells. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132514	 This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signalling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. The encoded type 2 transmembrane protein may function as a cell surface antigen. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000151694	 This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biologic processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The protein encoded by this gene functions as a tumor necrosis factor-alpha converting enzyme; binds mitotic arrest deficient 2 protein; and also plays a prominent role in the activation of the Notch signaling pathway. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000030304	 This gene encodes a muscle-specific tyrosine kinase receptor. The encoded protein may play a role in clustering of the acetylcholine receptor in the postsynaptic neuromuscular junction. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital myasthenic syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000131016	 The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. The encoded protein is expressed in endothelial cells, cultured fibroblasts, and osteosarcoma cells. It associates with protein kinases A and C and phosphatase, and serves as a scaffold protein in signal transduction. This protein and RII PKA colocalize at the cell periphery. This protein is a cell growth-related protein. Antibodies to this protein can be produced by patients with myasthenia gravis. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000236371	 This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. This locus is the most telomeric of the cluster.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000167236	 This gene is one of several cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene displays chemotactic activity on resting T lymphocytes and monocytes, lower activity on neutrophils and no activity on activated T lymphocytes. The protein is also a strong suppressor of colony formation by a multipotential hematopoietic progenitor cell line. In addition, the product of this gene is a potent agonist at CC chemokine receptor 1. Two alternatively spliced variants encoding different active isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166311	 The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal acid sphingomyelinase that converts sphingomyelin to ceramide. The encoded protein also has phospholipase C activity. Defects in this gene are a cause of Niemann-Pick disease type A (NPA) and Niemann-Pick disease type B (NPB). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000136463	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that function as a translational activator of mitochondrially-encoded cytochrome c oxidase 1. Mutations in this gene are associated with Leigh syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000162599	 This gene encodes a member of the NF1 (nuclear factor 1) family of transcription factors. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000128510	 This gene is a member of the carboxypeptidase A/B subfamily, and it is located in a cluster with three other family members on chromosome 7. Carboxypeptidases are zinc-containing exopeptidases that catalyze the release of carboxy-terminal amino acids, and are synthesized as zymogens that are activated by proteolytic cleavage. This gene could be involved in the histone hyperacetylation pathway. It is imprinted and may be a strong candidate gene for prostate cancer aggressiveness. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131089	 The protein encoded by this gene is a Rho-like GTPase that switches between the active (GTP-bound) state and inactive (GDP-bound) state to regulate CDC42 and other genes. Defects in this gene are a cause of startle disease with epilepsy (STHEE), also known as hyperekplexia with epilepsy. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000115839	 This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of a Rab GTPase activating protein. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with a non-catalytic subunit to specifically regulate the activity of members of the Rab3 subfamily of small G proteins. This protein mediates the hydrolysis of GTP bound Rab3 to the GDP bound form. Mutations in this gene are associated with Warburg micro syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000100815	 This gene was identified based on the interaction of its protein product with thyroid hormone receptor beta. This protein is associated with the Golgi apparatus. The N-terminal region of the protein binds Golgi membranes and the C-terminal region binds the minus ends of microtubules; thus, the protein is thought to play a role in assembly and maintenance of the Golgi ribbon structure around the centrosome. Mutations in this gene cause achondrogenesis type IA.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000123297	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial translation elongation factor. The encoded protein is an enzyme that catalyzes the exchange of guanine nucleotides on the translation elongation factor Tu during the elongation step of mitchondrial protein translation. Mutations in this gene are associated with combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency-3 syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000160226	 Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding four different isoforms have been found for this nuclear gene. All isoforms contain leucine-rich repeats. Three of these isoforms are mitochondrial proteins and one of them lacks the target peptide, so is not located in mitochondrion. This gene is down-regulated in Down syndrome (DS) brain, which may represent mitochondrial dysfunction in DS patients. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000178035	 This gene encodes the rate-limiting enzyme in the de novo guanine nucleotide biosynthesis. It is thus involved in maintaining cellular guanine deoxy- and ribonucleotide pools needed for DNA and RNA synthesis. The encoded protein catalyzes the NAD-dependent oxidation of inosine-5'-monophosphate into xanthine-5'-monophosphate, which is then converted into guanosine-5'-monophosphate. This gene is up-regulated in some neoplasms, suggesting it may play a role in malignant transformation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169194	 This gene encodes an immunoregulatory cytokine produced primarily by activated Th2 cells. This cytokine is involved in several stages of B-cell maturation and differentiation. It up-regulates CD23 and MHC class II expression, and promotes IgE isotype switching of B cells. This cytokine down-regulates macrophage activity, thereby inhibits the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. This cytokine is found to be critical to the pathogenesis of allergen-induced asthma but operates through mechanisms independent of IgE and eosinophils. This gene, IL3, IL5, IL4, and CSF2 form a cytokine gene cluster on chromosome 5q, with this gene particularly close to IL4. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125877	 This gene encodes an inosine triphosphate pyrophosphohydrolase. The encoded protein hydrolyzes inosine triphosphate and deoxyinosine triphosphate to the monophosphate nucleotide and diphosphate. This protein, which is a member of the HAM1 NTPase protein family, is found in the cytoplasm and acts as a homodimer. Defects in the encoded protein can result in inosine triphosphate pyrophosphorylase deficiency which causes an accumulation of ITP in red blood cells. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000248099	 This gene encodes a member of the insulin-like hormone superfamily. The encoded protein is mainly produced in gonadal tissues. Studies of the mouse counterpart suggest that this gene may be involved in the development of urogenital tract and female fertility. This protein may also act as a hormone to regulate growth and differentiation of gubernaculum, and thus mediating intra-abdominal testicular descent. Mutations in this gene may lead to cryptorchidism. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000186765	 This gene encodes a member of the fascin protein family. Fascins crosslink actin into filamentous bundles within dynamic cell extensions. This family member is proposed to play a role in photoreceptor disk morphogenesis. A mutation in this gene results in one form of autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa and macular degeneration. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000074695	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type I integral membrane protein localized in the intermediate region between the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi, presumably recycling between the two compartments. The protein is a mannose-specific lectin and is a member of a novel family of plant lectin homologs in the secretory pathway of animal cells. Mutations in the gene are associated with a coagulation defect. Using positional cloning, the gene was identified as the disease gene leading to combined factor V-factor VIII deficiency, a rare, autosomal recessive disorder in which both coagulation factors V and VIII are diminished. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100079	 The protein encoded by this gene is a soluble beta-galactoside binding lectin. The encoded protein is found as a homodimer and can bind to lymphotoxin-alpha. A single nucleotide polymorphism in an intron of this gene can alter the transcriptional level of the protein, with a resultant increased risk of myocardial infarction. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186912	 The product of this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors. This family has several receptor subtypes with different pharmacological selectivity, which overlaps in some cases, for various adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This receptor is responsive to uridine nucleotides, partially responsive to ATP, and not responsive to ADP. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000049130	 This gene encodes the ligand of the tyrosine-kinase receptor encoded by the KIT locus. This ligand is a pleiotropic factor that acts in utero in germ cell and neural cell development, and hematopoiesis, all believed to reflect a role in cell migration. In adults, it functions pleiotropically, while mostly noted for its continued requirement in hematopoiesis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000224201	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AC151958.2. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000102230	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cytidylyltransferase family. It is involved in the regulation of phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000198753	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the plexin family. It functions as a receptor for semaphorin 5A, and plays a role in axon guidance, invasive growth and cell migration. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000185753	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AC093029.4 and AC092473.4. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000177688	 This gene is a member of the SUMO gene family. This family of genes encode small ubiquitin-related modifiers that are attached to proteins and control the target proteins' subcellular localization, stability, or activity. The protein described in this record is located in the cytoplasm and specifically modifies IKBA, leading to negative regulation of NF-kappa-B-dependent transcription of the IL12B gene. A specific polymorphism in this SUMO gene, which leads to the M55V substitution, has been associated with type I diabetes. The RefSeq contains this polymorphism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132688	 This gene encodes a member of the intermediate filament protein family and is expressed primarily in nerve cells. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000182578	 The protein encoded by this gene is the receptor for colony stimulating factor 1, a cytokine which controls the production, differentiation, and function of macrophages. This receptor mediates most if not all of the biological effects of this cytokine. Ligand binding activates the receptor kinase through a process of oligomerization and transphosphorylation. The encoded protein is a tyrosine kinase transmembrane receptor and member of the CSF1/PDGF receptor family of tyrosine-protein kinases. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a predisposition to myeloid malignancy. The first intron of this gene contains a transcriptionally inactive ribosomal protein L7 processed pseudogene oriented in the opposite direction. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109103	 This gene is specifically expressed in the photoreceptors in the retina. The encoded product shares strong homology with the C. elegans unc119 protein and it can functionally complement the C. elegans unc119 mutation. It has been localized to the photoreceptor synapses in the outer plexiform layer of the retina, and suggested to play a role in the mechanism of photoreceptor neurotransmitter release through the synaptic vesicle cycle. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106070	 The product of this gene belongs to a small family of adapter proteins that are known to interact with a number of receptor tyrosine kinases and signaling molecules. This gene encodes a growth factor receptor-binding protein that interacts with insulin receptors and insulin-like growth-factor receptors. Overexpression of some isoforms of the encoded protein inhibits tyrosine kinase activity and results in growth suppression. This gene is imprinted in a highly isoform- and tissue-specific manner, with expression observed from the paternal allele in the brain, and from the maternal allele in the placental trophoblasts. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000126214	 Conventional kinesin is a tetrameric molecule composed of two heavy chains and two light chains, and transports various cargos along microtubules toward their plus ends. The heavy chains provide the motor activity, while the light chains bind to various cargos. This gene encodes a member of the kinesin light chain family. It associates with kinesin heavy chain through an N-terminal domain, and six tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) motifs are thought to be involved in binding of cargos such as vesicles, mitochondria, and the Golgi complex. Thus, kinesin light chains function as adapter molecules and not motors per se. Although previously named 'kinesin 2', this gene is not a member of the kinesin-2 / kinesin heavy chain subfamily of kinesin motor proteins. Extensive alternative splicing produces isoforms with different C-termini that are proposed to bind to different cargos; however, the full-length nature and/or biological validity of most of these variants have not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143420	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a highly conserved cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein (ARPP) family. This protein was identified as an endogenous ligand for the sulfonylurea receptor, ABCC8/SUR1. ABCC8 is the regulatory subunit of the ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channel, which is located on the plasma membrane of pancreatic beta cells and plays a key role in the control of insulin release from pancreatic beta cells. This protein is thought to be an endogenous regulator of KATP channels. In vitro studies have demonstrated that this protein modulates insulin secretion through the interaction with KATP channel, and this gene has been proposed as a candidate gene for type 2 diabetes. At least eight alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000082126	 This gene encodes a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) protein family, with an N-terminal PDZ domain, a central src homology 3 region (SH3), and a C-terminal guanylate kinase-like (GUK) domain. The protein is localized to the outer limiting membrane in the retina, and is thought to function in photoreceptor polarity and the organization of specialized intercellular junctions. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000257017	 This gene encodes a preproprotein, which is processed to yield both alpha and beta chains, which subsequently combine as a tetramer to produce haptoglobin. Haptoglobin functions to bind free plasma hemoglobin, which allows degradative enzymes to gain access to the hemoglobin, while at the same time preventing loss of iron through the kidneys and protecting the kidneys from damage by hemoglobin. Mutations in this gene and/or its regulatory regions cause ahaptoglobinemia or hypohaptoglobinemia. This gene has also been linked to diabetic nephropathy, the incidence of coronary artery disease in type 1 diabetes, Crohn's disease, inflammatory disease behavior, primary sclerosing cholangitis, susceptibility to idiopathic Parkinson's disease, and a reduced incidence of Plasmodium falciparum malaria. A similar duplicated gene is located next to this gene on chromosome 16. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182771	 This gene encodes a subunit of glutamate receptor channels. These channels mediate most of the fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system and play key roles in synaptic plasticity.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000237693	 This gene encodes a member of the p47 immunity-related GTPase family. The encoded protein may play a role in the innate immune response by regulating autophagy formation in response to intracellular pathogens. Polymorphisms that affect the normal expression of this gene are associated with a susceptibility to Crohn's disease and tuberculosis.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000179915	 Neurexins function in the vertebrate nervous system as cell adhesion molecules and receptors. Two neurexin genes are among the largest known in human (NRXN1 and NRXN3). By using alternate promoters, splice sites and exons, predictions of hundreds or even thousands of distinct mRNAs have been made. Most transcripts use the upstream promoter and encode alpha-neurexin isoforms; fewer transcripts are produced from the downstream promoter and encode beta-neurexin isoforms. Alpha-neurexins contain epidermal growth factor-like (EGF-like) sequences and laminin G domains, and they interact with neurexophilins. Beta-neurexins lack EGF-like sequences and contain fewer laminin G domains than alpha-neurexins. The RefSeq Project has decided to create only a few representative transcript variants of the multitude that are possible. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000164111	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the annexin family of calcium-dependent phospholipid binding proteins some of which have been implicated in membrane-related events along exocytotic and endocytotic pathways. Annexin 5 is a phospholipase A2 and protein kinase C inhibitory protein with calcium channel activity and a potential role in cellular signal transduction, inflammation, growth and differentiation. Annexin 5 has also been described as placental anticoagulant protein I, vascular anticoagulant-alpha, endonexin II, lipocortin V, placental protein 4 and anchorin CII. The gene spans 29 kb containing 13 exons, and encodes a single transcript of approximately 1.6 kb and a protein product with a molecular weight of about 35 kDa. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173898	 Spectrins are principle components of a cell's membrane-cytoskeleton and are composed of two alpha and two beta spectrin subunits. The protein encoded by this gene (SPTBN2), is called spectrin beta non-erythrocytic 2 or beta-III spectrin. It is related to, but distinct from, the beta-II spectrin gene which is also known as spectrin beta non-erythrocytic 1 (SPTBN1). SPTBN2 regulates the glutamate signaling pathway by stabilizing the glutamate transporter EAAT4 at the surface of the plasma membrane. Mutations in this gene cause a form of spinocerebellar ataxia, SCA5, that is characterized by neurodegeneration, progressive locomotor incoordination, dysarthria, and uncoordinated eye movements. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000137203	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor that binds the consensus sequence 5'-GCCNNNGGC-3'. The encoded protein functions as either a homodimer or as a heterodimer with similar family members. This protein activates the transcription of some genes while inhibiting the transcription of others. Defects in this gene are a cause of branchiooculofacial syndrome (BOFS). Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000174595	 This gene encodes a member of the Kruppel-like family of transcription factors. The gene exhibits imprinted expression from the maternal allele in embryonic and extra-embryonic tissues. Expression of this gene is induced by TGF-beta, and the protein represses TGF-beta receptor II expression. The protein functions as part of a transcriptional co-repressor complex that also contains the transcriptional regulator SIN3A and histone deacetylase 2. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000171202	 The protein encoded by this gene is a mitochondrial membrane protein of unknown function. Defects in this gene are a cause of optic atrophy type 7 (OPA7). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000164930	 This gene represents a member of the 'frizzled' gene family, which encode 7-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for Wnt signaling proteins. The protein encoded by this family member contains a signal peptide, a cysteine-rich domain in the N-terminal extracellular region, and seven transmembrane domains, but unlike other family members, this protein does not contain a C-terminal PDZ domain-binding motif. This protein functions as a negative regulator of the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling cascade, thereby inhibiting the processes that trigger oncogenic transformation, cell proliferation, and inhibition of apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, some of which do not encode a protein with a predicted signal peptide.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000165259	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL022160.1, AL450471.9 and AL035552.9. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000025434	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the NR1 subfamily of the nuclear receptor superfamily. The NR1 family members are key regulators of macrophage function, controlling transcriptional programs involved in lipid homeostasis and inflammation. This protein is highly expressed in visceral organs, including liver, kidney and intestine. It forms a heterodimer with retinoid X receptor (RXR), and regulates expression of target genes containing retinoid response elements. Studies in mice lacking this gene suggest that it may play an important role in the regulation of cholesterol homeostasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000239306	 This gene encodes a ribonucleoprotein that functions as a general nuclear coactivator, and an RNA splicing modulator. This protein contains two RNA recognition motifs (RRM) at the N-terminus, and multiple hexapeptide repeat domain at the C-terminus that interacts with thyroid hormone receptor-binding protein (TRBP), and is required for transcription activation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms (with opposing effects on transcription) have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000166685	 The protein encoded by this gene is one of eight proteins (Cog1-8) which form a Golgi-localized complex (COG) required for normal Golgi morphology and function. It is thought that this protein is required for steps in the normal medial and trans Golgi-associated processing of glycoconjugates and plays a role in the organization of the Golgi-localized complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184500	 This gene encodes a vitamin K-dependent plasma protein that functions as a cofactor for the anticoagulant protease, activated protein C (APC) to inhibit blood coagulation. It is found in plasma in both a free, functionally active form and also in an inactive form complexed with C4b-binding protein. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal dominant hereditary thrombophilia. An inactive pseudogene of this locus is located at an adjacent region on chromosome 3. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000169297	 This gene encodes a protein that contains a DNA-binding domain. The encoded protein acts as a dominant-negative regulator of transcription which is mediated by the retinoic acid receptor. This protein also functions as an anti-testis gene by acting antagonistically to Sry. Mutations in this gene result in both X-linked congenital adrenal hypoplasia and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100393	 This gene encodes the adenovirus E1A-associated cellular p300 transcriptional co-activator protein. It functions as histone acetyltransferase that regulates transcription via chromatin remodeling and is important in the processes of cell proliferation and differentiation. It mediates cAMP-gene regulation by binding specifically to phosphorylated CREB protein. This gene has also been identified as a co-activator of HIF1A (hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha), and thus plays a role in the stimulation of hypoxia-induced genes such as VEGF. Defects in this gene are a cause of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome and may also play a role in epithelial cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124827	 This gene is a homolog of the Drosophila glial cells missing gene, which is thought to act as a binary switch between neuronal and glial cell determination. The protein encoded by this gene contains a conserved N-terminal GCM motif that has DNA-binding activity. The protein is a transcription factor that acts as a master regulator of parathyroid development. It has been suggested that this transcription factor might mediate the effect of calcium on parathyroid hormone expression and secretion in parathyroid cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with hypoparathyroidism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110218	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the innexin family. Innexin family members are the structural components of gap junctions. This protein and pannexin 2 are abundantly expressed in central nerve system (CNS) and are coexpressed in various neuronal populations. Studies in Xenopus oocytes suggest that this protein alone and in combination with pannexin 2 may form cell type-specific gap junctions with distinct properties. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000205155	 Presenilins, which are components of the gamma-secretase protein complex, are required for intramembranous processing of some type I transmembrane proteins, such as the Notch proteins and the beta-amyloid precursor protein. Signaling by Notch receptors mediates a wide range of developmental cell fates. Processing of the beta-amyloid precursor protein generates neurotoxic amyloid beta peptides, the major component of senile plaques associated with Alzheimer's disease. This gene encodes a protein that is required for Notch pathway signaling, and for the activity and accumulation of gamma-secretase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162736	 This gene encodes a Type I transmembrane glycoprotein that is an integral component of the multimeric gamma-secretase complex. The encoded protein cleaves integral membrane proteins, including Notch receptors and beta-amyloid precursor protein, and may be a stabilizing cofactor required for gamma-secretase complex assembly. The cleavage of beta-amyloid precursor protein yields amyloid beta peptide, the main component of the neuritic plaque and the hallmark lesion in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease; however, the nature of the encoded protein's role in Alzheimer's disease is not known for certain. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167633	 Killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) are transmembrane glycoproteins expressed by natural killer cells and subsets of T cells. The KIR genes are polymorphic and highly homologous and they are found in a cluster on chromosome 19q13.4 within the 1 Mb leukocyte receptor complex (LRC). The gene content of the KIR gene cluster varies among haplotypes, although several 'framework' genes are found in all haplotypes (KIR3DL3, KIR3DP1, KIR3DL4, KIR3DL2). The KIR proteins are classified by the number of extracellular immunoglobulin domains (2D or 3D) and by whether they have a long (L) or short (S) cytoplasmic domain. KIR proteins with the long cytoplasmic domain transduce inhibitory signals upon ligand binding via an immune tyrosine-based inhibitory motif (ITIM), while KIR proteins with the short cytoplasmic domain lack the ITIM motif and instead associate with the TYRO protein tyrosine kinase binding protein to transduce activating signals. The ligands for several KIR proteins are subsets of HLA class I molecules; thus, KIR proteins are thought to play an important role in regulation of the immune response. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101191	 Apoptosis, a major form of cell death, is an efficient mechanism for eliminating unwanted cells and is of central importance for development and homeostasis in metazoan animals. In mice, the death inducer-obliterator-1 gene is upregulated by apoptotic signals and encodes a cytoplasmic protein that translocates to the nucleus upon apoptotic signal activation. When overexpressed, the mouse protein induced apoptosis in cell lines growing in vitro. This gene is similar to the mouse gene and therefore is thought to be involved in apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcripts have been found for this gene, encoding multiple isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163347	 Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and serving as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space. These junctions are comprised of sets of continuous networking strands in the outwardly facing cytoplasmic leaflet, with complementary grooves in the inwardly facing extracytoplasmic leaflet. The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the claudin family, is an integral membrane protein and a component of tight junction strands. Loss of function mutations result in neonatal ichthyosis-sclerosing cholangitis syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109339	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. This protein is a neuronal-specific form of c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs). Through its phosphorylation and nuclear localization, this kinase plays regulatory roles in the signaling pathways during neuronal apoptosis. Beta-arrestin 2, a receptor-regulated MAP kinase scaffold protein, is found to interact with, and stimulate the phosphorylation of this kinase by MAP kinase kinase 4 (MKK4). Cyclin-dependent kianse 5 can phosphorylate, and inhibit the activity of this kinase, which may be important in preventing neuronal apoptosis. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101868	 This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase, which together with a regulatory and two primase subunits, forms the DNA polymerase alpha complex. The catalytic subunit plays an essential role in the initiation of DNA replication. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000179397	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL591594.9 and AC099757.2. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000108021	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL365356.13 and AL596094.2. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000147118	 Zinc-finger proteins bind nucleic acids and play important roles in various cellular functions, including cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. This gene encodes a zinc finger protein, and belongs to the krueppel C2H2-type zinc-finger protein family. It may be involved in transcriptional regulation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000130021	 This gene encodes a member of the haloacid dehalogenase-like (HAD) hydrolase superfamily. The encoded protein has no known biological function. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome 1. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000196632	 This gene encodes a protein belonging to the 'with no lysine' family of serine-threonine protein kinases. These family members lack the catalytic lysine in subdomain II, and instead have a conserved lysine in subdomain I. This family member functions as a positive regulator of the transcellular Ca2+ transport pathway, and it plays a role in the increase of cell survival in a caspase-3-dependent pathway. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000180210	 Coagulation factor II is proteolytically cleaved to form thrombin in the first step of the coagulation cascade which ultimately results in the stemming of blood loss.  F2 also plays a role in maintaining vascular integrity during development and postnatal life.  Mutations in F2 leads to various forms of thrombosis and dysprothrombinemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000087237	 Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) transfers cholesteryl esters between lipoproteins. CETP may effect susceptibility to atherosclerosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175054	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs the PI3/PI4-kinase family, and is most closely related to ATM, a protein kinase encoded by the gene mutated in ataxia telangiectasia. This protein and ATM share similarity with Schizosaccharomyces pombe rad3, a cell cycle checkpoint gene required for cell cycle arrest and DNA damage repair in response to DNA damage. This kinase has been shown to phosphorylate checkpoint kinase CHK1, checkpoint proteins RAD17, and RAD9, as well as tumor suppressor protein BRCA1. Mutations of this gene are associated with Seckel syndrome. An alternatively spliced transcript variant of this gene has been reported, however, its full length nature is not known. Transcript variants utilizing alternative polyA sites exist. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000139352	 This gene encodes a member of the basic helix-loop-helix (BHLH) family of transcription factors. The protein activates transcription by binding to the E box (5'-CANNTG-3'). Dimerization with other BHLH proteins is required for efficient DNA binding. This protein plays a role in the neuronal commitment and differentiation and in the generation of olfactory and autonomic neurons. Mutations in this gene may contribute to the congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS) phenotype in rare cases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148702	 The protein encoded by this gene is an extracellular serine protease that binds hyaluronic acid and is involved in cell adhesion. The encoded protein is synthesized as a single chain, but then undergoes an autoproteolytic event to form the functional heterodimer. Further autoproteolysis leads to smaller, inactive peptides. This protease is known to cleave urinary plasminogen activator, coagulation factor VII, and the alpha and beta chains of fibrinogen, but not prothrombin, plasminogen, or the gamma chain of fibrinogen. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000135677	 The product of this gene is a lysosomal enzyme found in all cells. It is involved in the catabolism of heparin, heparan sulphate, and keratan sulphate. Deficiency of this enzyme results in the accumulation of undegraded substrate and the lysosomal storage disorder mucopolysaccharidosis type IIID (Sanfilippo D syndrome). Mucopolysaccharidosis type IIID is the least common of the four subtypes of Sanfilippo syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000203879	 GDP dissociation inhibitors are proteins that regulate the GDP-GTP exchange reaction of members of the rab family, small GTP-binding proteins of the ras superfamily, that are involved in vesicular trafficking of molecules between cellular organelles. GDIs slow the rate of dissociation of GDP from rab proteins and release GDP from membrane-bound rabs. GDI1 is expressed primarily in neural and sensory tissues. Mutations in GDI1 have been linked to X-linked nonspecific mental retardation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116984	 MTR encodes the enzyme 5-methyltetrahydrofolate-homocysteine methyltransferase. This enzyme, also known as cobalamin-dependent methionine synthase, catalyzes the final step in methionine biosynthesis. Mutations in MTR have been identified as the underlying cause of methylcobalamin deficiency complementation group G. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000076003	 The protein encoded by this gene is one of the highly conserved mini-chromosome maintenance proteins (MCM) that are essential for the initiation of eukaryotic genome replication. The hexameric protein complex formed by the MCM proteins is a key component of the pre-replication complex (pre_RC) and may be involved in the formation of replication forks and in the recruitment of other DNA replication related proteins. The MCM complex consisting of this protein and MCM2, 4 and 7 proteins possesses DNA helicase activity, and may act as a DNA unwinding enzyme. The phosphorylation of the complex by CDC2 kinase reduces the helicase activity, suggesting a role in the regulation of DNA replication. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the intron regions of this gene are associated with differential transcriptional activation of the promoter of the neighboring lactase gene and, thereby, influence lactose intolerance in early adulthood. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000100206	 The protein encoded by this gene is essential for meiotic homologous recombination. Genetic recombination in meiosis plays an important role in generating diversity of genetic information. The product of this gene is structurally and evolutionary related to the products of the yeast RAD51 and E. coli RecA genes. Alternative splice variants of this gene have been described but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000213398	 This gene encodes the extracellular cholesterol esterifying enzyme, lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase. The esterification of cholesterol is required for cholesterol transport. Mutations in this gene have been found to cause fish-eye disease as well as LCAT deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136999	 The protein encoded by this gene is a small secreted cysteine-rich protein and a member of the CCN family of regulatory proteins. CNN family proteins associate with the extracellular matrix and play an important role in cardiovascular and skeletal development, fibrosis and cancer development. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000049860	 Hexosaminidase B is the beta subunit of the lysosomal enzyme beta-hexosaminidase that, together with the cofactor GM2 activator protein, catalyzes the degradation of the ganglioside GM2, and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines. Beta-hexosaminidase is composed of two subunits, alpha and beta, which are encoded by separate genes.  Both beta-hexosaminidase alpha and beta subunits are members of family 20 of glycosyl hydrolases.  Mutations in the alpha or beta subunit genes lead to an accumulation of GM2 ganglioside in neurons and neurodegenerative disorders termed the GM2 gangliosidoses.  Beta subunit gene mutations lead to Sandhoff disease (GM2-gangliosidosis type II). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136881	 The protein encoded by this gene is a liver enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of C24 bile acids from the acyl-CoA thioester to either glycine or taurine, the second step in the formation of bile acid-amino acid conjugates. The bile acid conjugates then act as a detergent in the gastrointestinal tract, which enhances lipid and fat-soluble vitamin absorption. Defects in this gene are a cause of familial hypercholanemia (FHCA). Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000083123	 Branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase is a multienzyme complex associated with the inner membrane of mitochondria, and functions in the catabolism of branched-chain amino acids. The complex consists of multiple copies of 3 components: branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase (E1), lipoamide acyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3). This gene encodes the E1 beta subunit, and mutations therein have been associated with maple syrup urine disease (MSUD), type 1B, a disease characterized by a maple syrup odor to the urine in addition to mental and physical retardation, and feeding problems. Alternative splicing at this locus results in transcript variants with different 3' non-coding regions, but encoding the same isoform. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135506	 This gene encodes a protein that is highly expressed in osteosarcomas. This protein binds to the hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1), a key regulator of the hypoxic response and angiogenesis, and promotes the degradation of one of its subunits. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000151090	 The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear hormone receptor for triiodothyronine. It is one of the several receptors for thyroid hormone, and has been shown to mediate the biological activities of thyroid hormone. Knockout studies in mice suggest that the different receptors, while having certain extent of redundancy, may mediate different functions of thyroid hormone. Mutations in this gene are known to be a cause of generalized thyroid hormone resistance (GTHR), a syndrome characterized by goiter and high levels of circulating thyroid hormone (T3-T4), with normal or slightly elevated thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164326	 This gene encodes a secreted protein which is processed by prohormone/proprotein convertases to produce smaller, biologically active peptides. Expression of the transcript for this gene is regulated by certain drugs such as cocaine, and the encoded protein is thought to be involved in the regulation of appetite and stress. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to obesity.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000140287	 This gene encodes a member of the group II decarboxylase family and forms a homodimer that converts L-histidine to histamine in a pyridoxal phosphate dependent manner. Histamine regulates several physiologic processes, including neurotransmission, gastric acid secretion,inflamation, and smooth muscle tone.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000100997	 This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2-AG), the main endocannabinoid lipid transmitter that acts on cannabinoid receptors, CB1 and CB2. The endocannabinoid system is involved in a wide range of physiological processes, including neurotransmission, mood, appetite, pain appreciation, addiction behavior, and inflammation. Mutations in this gene are associated with the neurodegenerative disease, PHARC (polyneuropathy, hearing loss, ataxia, retinitis pigmentosa, and cataract), resulting from an inborn error of endocannabinoid metabolism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000160224	 This gene encodes a transcriptional regulator that forms nuclear bodies and interacts with the transcriptional coactivator CREB binding protein. The encoded protein plays an important role in immunity by regulating the expression of autoantigens and negative selection of autoreactive T-cells in the thymus. Mutations in this gene cause the rare autosomal-recessive systemic autoimmune disease termed autoimmune polyendocrinopathy with candidiasis and ectodermal dystrophy (APECED). [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000106991	 This gene encodes a homodimeric transmembrane protein which is a major glycoprotein of the vascular endothelium. This protein is a component of the transforming growth factor beta receptor complex and it binds TGFB1 and TGFB3 with high affinity. Mutations in this gene cause hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, also known as Osler-Rendu-Weber syndrome 1, an autosomal dominant multisystemic vascular dysplasia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000156313	 This gene encodes a protein with a series of six RCC1-like domains (RLDs), characteristic of the highly conserved guanine nucleotide exchange factors. The encoded protein is found in the Golgi body and interacts with RPGRIP1. This protein localizes to the outer segment of rod photoreceptors and is essential for their viability. Mutations in this gene have been associated with X-linked retinitis pigmentosa (XLRP). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms of this gene have been reported, but the full-length natures of only some have been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000110514	 Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) is a signaling molecule that interacts with one of two receptors on cells targeted for apoptosis. The apoptotic signal is transduced inside these cells by cytoplasmic adaptor proteins. The protein encoded by this gene is a death domain-containing adaptor protein that interacts with the death domain of TNF-alpha receptor 1 to activate mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and propagate the apoptotic signal. It is membrane-bound and expressed at a higher level in neoplastic cells than in normal cells. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119650	 This gene encodes a subunit of the intraflagellar transport complex A (IFT-A). IFT-A is a multiprotein complex that plays an important role in cilia assembly and maintenance by mediating retrograde ciliary transport. Mutations in this gene are a cause of cranioectodermal dysplasia-3 (CED3), also known as Sensenbrenner syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000226023	 This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000182287	 Adaptor protein complex 1 is found at the cytoplasmic face of coated vesicles located at the Golgi complex, where it mediates both the recruitment of clathrin to the membrane and the recognition of sorting signals within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane receptors. This complex is a heterotetramer composed of two large, one medium, and one small adaptin subunit. The protein encoded by this gene serves as the small subunit of this complex and is a member of the adaptin protein family. Transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000185008	 This gene belongs to the ROBO family, part of the immunoglobulin superfamily proteins that are highly conserved from fly to human. The encoded protein is a receptor for SLIT2, molecules known to function in axon guidance and cell migration. Defects in this gene are the cause of vesicoureteral reflux type 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000228517	 This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000226600	 This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000143248	 This gene encodes a member of the regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) family. The RGS proteins are signal transduction molecules which are involved in the regulation of heterotrimeric G proteins by acting as GTPase activators. This gene is a hypoxia-inducible factor-1 dependent, hypoxia-induced gene which is involved in the induction of endothelial apoptosis. This gene is also one of three genes on chromosome 1q contributing to elevated blood pressure. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000106392	 The protein encoded by this gene generates the common core 1 O-glycan structure, Gal-beta-1-3GalNAc-R, by the transfer of Gal from UDP-Gal to GalNAc-alpha-1-R. Core 1 is a precursor for many extended mucin-type O-glycans on cell surface and secreted glycoproteins. Studies in mice suggest that this gene plays a key role in thrombopoiesis and kidney homeostasis.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000182070	 Olfactory receptors interact with odorant molecules in the nose, to initiate a neuronal response that triggers the perception of a smell. The olfactory receptor proteins are members of a large family of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) arising from single coding-exon genes. Olfactory receptors share a 7-transmembrane domain structure with many neurotransmitter and hormone receptors and are responsible for the recognition and G protein-mediated transduction of odorant signals. The olfactory receptor gene family is the largest in the genome. The nomenclature assigned to the olfactory receptor genes and proteins for this organism is independent of other organisms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000012223	 This gene is a member of the transferrin family of genes and its protein product is found in the secondary granules of neutrophils. The protein is a major iron-binding protein in milk and body secretions with an antimicrobial activity, making it an important component of the non-specific immune system. The protein demonstrates a broad spectrum of properties, including regulation of iron homeostasis, host defense against a broad range of microbial infections, anti-inflammatory activity, regulation of cellular growth and differentiation and protection against cancer development and metastasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000113520	 The protein encoded by this gene is a pleiotropic cytokine produced by activated T cells. This cytokine is a ligand for interleukin 4 receptor. The interleukin 4 receptor also binds to IL13, which may contribute to many overlapping functions of this cytokine and IL13. STAT6, a signal transducer and activator of transcription, has been shown to play a central role in mediating the immune regulatory signal of this cytokine. This gene, IL3, IL5, IL13, and CSF2 form a cytokine gene cluster on chromosome 5q, with this gene particularly close to IL13. This gene, IL13 and IL5 are found to be regulated coordinately by several long-range regulatory elements in an over 120 kilobase range on the chromosome. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120948	 HIV-1, the causative agent of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), contains an RNA genome that produces a chromosomally integrated DNA during the replicative cycle. Activation of HIV-1 gene expression by the transactivator Tat is dependent on an RNA regulatory element (TAR) located downstream of the transcription initiation site. The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional repressor that binds to chromosomally integrated TAR DNA and represses HIV-1 transcription. In addition, this protein regulates alternate splicing of the CFTR gene. A similar pseudogene is present on chromosome 20. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101327	 The protein encoded by this gene is a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to form the secreted opioid peptides beta-neoendorphin, dynorphin, leu-enkephalin, rimorphin, and leumorphin. These peptides are ligands for the kappa-type of opioid receptor. Dynorphin is involved in modulating responses to several psychoactive substances, including cocaine. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000089280	 This gene encodes a multifunctional protein component of the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) complex. The hnRNP complex is involved in pre-mRNA splicing and the export of fully processed mRNA to the cytoplasm. This protein belongs to the FET family of RNA-binding proteins which have been implicated in cellular processes that include regulation of gene expression, maintenance of genomic integrity and mRNA/microRNA processing. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Defects in this gene result in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis type 6. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000138835	 This gene encodes a member of the regulator of G-protein signaling (RGS) family. This protein is a GTPase-activating protein that inhibits G-protein-mediated signal transduction. Alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Long isoforms are largely cytosolic and plasma membrane-associated with a function in Wnt signaling and in the epithelial mesenchymal transition, while shorter N-terminally-truncated isoforms can be nuclear. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000110693	 This gene encodes a member of the D subfamily of sex determining region y-related transcription factors that are characterized by a conserved DNA-binding domain termed the high mobility group box and by their ability to bind the minor groove of DNA. The encoded protein is a transcriptional activator that is required for normal development of the central nervous system, chondrogenesis and maintenance of cardiac and skeletal muscle cells. The encoded protein interacts with other family members to cooperatively activate gene expression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000105877	 This gene encodes a ciliary outer dynein arm protein and is a member of the dynein heavy chain family. It is a microtubule-dependent motor ATPase and has been reported to be involved in the movement of respiratory cilia. Mutations in this gene have been implicated in causing Kartagener Syndrome (a combination of situs inversus totalis and Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia (PCD), also called Immotile Cilia Syndrome 1 (ICS1)) and male sterility. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000143171	 This gene encodes a member of the retinoid X receptor (RXR) family of nuclear receptors which are involved in mediating the antiproliferative effects of retinoic acid (RA). This receptor forms dimers with the retinoic acid, thyroid hormone, and vitamin D receptors, increasing both DNA binding and transcriptional function on their respective response elements. This gene is expressed at significantly lower levels in non-small cell lung cancer cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000013563	 This gene encodes a member of the deoxyribonuclease family and the protein shows high sequence similarity to lysosomal DNase I. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding the same protein, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000111249	 This gene encodes a protein which contains three CUT domains and a homeodomain; both domains are DNA-binding motifs. A similar gene, whose gene product possesses different DNA-binding activities, is located on chromosome on chromosome 7. Two pseudogenes of this gene have been identified on chromosomes 10 and 4. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000183010	 This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the NAD(P)H-dependent conversion of pyrroline-5-carboxylate to proline. This enzyme may also play a physiologic role in the generation of NADP(+) in some cell types. The protein forms a homopolymer and localizes to the mitochondrion. Alternate splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162692	 This gene is a member of the Ig superfamily and encodes a cell surface sialoglycoprotein expressed by cytokine-activated endothelium. This type I membrane protein mediates leukocyte-endothelial cell adhesion and signal transduction, and may play a role in the development of artherosclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis. Three alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000105392	 The protein encoded by this gene is a photoreceptor-specific transcription factor which plays a role in the differentiation of photoreceptor cells. This homeodomain protein is necessary for the maintenance of normal cone and rod function. Mutations in this gene are associated with photoreceptor degeneration, Leber congenital amaurosis type III and the autosomal dominant cone-rod dystrophy 2. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000146282	 The protein encoded by this gene is an arginyl-tRNA synthetase that is found in the mitochondrial matrix. Defects in this gene are a cause of pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 6 (PCH6). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000164904	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of subfamily 7 in the aldehyde dehydrogenase gene family. These enzymes are thought to play a major role in the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism and lipid peroxidation. This particular member has homology to a previously described protein from the green garden pea, the 26g pea turgor protein. It is also involved in lysine catabolism that is known to occur in the mitochondrial matrix. Recent reports show that this protein is found both in the cytosol and the mitochondria, and the two forms likely arise from the use of alternative translation initiation sites. An additional variant encoding a different isoform has also been found for this gene. Mutations in this gene are associated with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy. Several related pseudogenes have also been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000166035	 LIPC encodes hepatic triglyceride lipase, which is expressed in liver. LIPC has the dual functions of triglyceride hydrolase and ligand/bridging factor for receptor-mediated lipoprotein uptake. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138823	 MTP encodes the large subunit of the heterodimeric microsomal triglyceride transfer protein. Protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) completes the heterodimeric microsomal triglyceride transfer protein, which has been shown to play a central role in lipoprotein assembly. Mutations in MTP can cause abetalipoproteinemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000139436	 This gene encodes a member of the GIT protein family, which interact with G protein-coupled receptor kinases and possess ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) GTPase-activating protein (GAP) activity. GIT proteins traffic between cytoplasmic complexes, focal adhesions, and the cell periphery, and interact with Pak interacting exchange factor beta (PIX) to form large oligomeric complexes that transiently recruit other proteins. GIT proteins regulate cytoskeletal dynamics and participate in receptor internalization and membrane trafficking. This gene has been shown to repress lamellipodial extension and focal adhesion turnover, and is thought to regulate cell motility. This gene undergoes extensive alternative splicing to generate multiple isoforms, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. The various isoforms have functional differences, with respect to ARF GAP activity and to G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 binding. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000108010	 This gene encodes a member of the glutaredoxin family. Glutaredoxins are oxidoreductase enzymes that reduce a variety of substrates using glutathione as a cofactor. The encoded protein binds to and modulates the function of protein kinase C theta. The encoded protein may also inhibit apoptosis and play a role in cellular growth, and the expression of this gene may be a marker for cancer. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on the short arm of chromosomes 6 and 9. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000162512	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the syndecan proteoglycan family. It may play a role in the organization of cell shape by affecting the actin cytoskeleton, possibly by transferring signals from the cell surface in a sugar-dependent mechanism. Allelic variants of this gene have been associated with obesity. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000100219	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that regulates MHC class II genes by binding to a promoter element referred to as an X box. This gene product is a bZIP protein, which was also identified as a cellular transcription factor that binds to an enhancer in the promoter of the T cell leukemia virus type 1 promoter. It may increase expression of viral proteins by acting as the DNA binding partner of a viral transactivator. It has been found that upon accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), the mRNA of this gene is processed to an active form by an unconventional splicing mechanism that is mediated by the endonuclease inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (IRE1). The resulting loss of 26 nt from the spliced mRNA causes a frame-shift and an isoform XBP1(S), which is the functionally active transcription factor. The isoform encoded by the unspliced mRNA, XBP1(U), is constitutively expressed, and thought to function as a negative feedback regulator of XBP1(S), which shuts off transcription of target genes during the recovery phase of ER stress. A pseudogene of XBP1 has been identified and localized to chromosome 5. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000103126	 This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein which contains a regulation of G-protein signaling (RGS) domain and a dishevelled and axin (DIX) domain. The encoded protein interacts with adenomatosis polyposis coli, catenin beta-1, glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta, protein phosphate 2, and itself. This protein functions as a negative regulator of the wingless-type MMTV integration site family, member 1 (WNT) signaling pathway and can induce apoptosis. The crystal structure of a portion of this protein, alone and in a complex with other proteins, has been resolved. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hepatocellular carcinoma, hepatoblastomas, ovarian endometriod adenocarcinomas, and medullablastomas. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000171444	 This gene is a candidate colorectal tumor suppressor gene that is thought to negatively regulate cell cycle progression. The orthologous gene in the mouse expresses a phosphoprotein associated with the plasma membrane and membrane organelles, and overexpression of the mouse protein inhibits entry into S phase. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160602	 This gene encodes a member of the serine/threionine protein kinase family related to NIMA (never in mitosis, gene A) of Aspergillus nidulans. The encoded protein may play a role in cell cycle progression from G2 to M phase. Mutations in the related mouse gene are associated with a disease phenotype that closely parallels the juvenile autosomal recessive form of polycystic kidney disease in humans. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000144908	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of 10-formyltetrahydrofolate, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP+), and water to tetrahydrofolate, NADPH, and carbon dioxide. The encoded protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family. Loss of function or expression of this gene is associated with decreased apoptosis, increased cell motility, and cancer progression. There is an antisense transcript that overlaps on the opposite strand with this gene locus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000118514	 This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenases family of proteins. It plays a role in a pathway of 9-cis-retinoic acid biosynthesis in vivo. This enzyme converts 9-cis-retinal into the retinoid X receptor ligand 9-cis-retinoic acid, and has approximately 40-fold higher activity with 9-cis-retinal than with all-trans-retinal. Therefore, it is the first known aldehyde dehydrogenase to show a preference for 9-cis-retinal relative to all-trans-retinal. Three transcript variants encoding distinct protein isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000005156	 This gene is a member of the DNA ligase family. Each member of this family encodes a protein that catalyzes the joining of DNA ends but they each have a distinct role in DNA metabolism. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in excision repair and is located in both the mitochondria and nucleus, with translation initiation from the upstream start codon allowing for transport to the mitochondria and translation initiation from a downstream start codon allowing for transport to the nucleus. Additionally, alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136527	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein which functions as sequence-specific serine/arginine splicing factor which plays a role in mRNA processing, splicing patterns, and gene expression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000117601	 The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma protease inhibitor and a member of the serpin superfamily. This protein inhibits thrombin as well as other activated serine proteases of the coagulation system, and it regulates the blood coagulation cascade. The protein includes two functional domains: the heparin binding-domain at the N-terminus of the mature protein, and the reactive site domain at the C-terminus. The inhibitory activity is enhanced by the presence of heparin. More than 120 mutations have been identified for this gene, many of which are known to cause antithrombin-III deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000147246	 Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT), a neurotransmitter, elicits a wide array of physiological effects by binding to several receptor subtypes, including the 5-HT2 family of seven-transmembrane-spanning, G-protein-coupled receptors, which activate phospholipase C and D signaling pathways. This gene encodes the 2C subtype of serotonin receptor and its mRNA is subject to multiple RNA editing events, where genomically encoded adenosine residues are converted to inosines. RNA editing is predicted to alter amino acids within the second intracellular loop of the 5-HT2C receptor and generate receptor isoforms that differ in their ability to interact with G proteins and the activation of phospholipase C and D signaling cascades, thus modulating serotonergic neurotransmission in the central nervous system. Studies in humans have reported abnormalities in patterns of 5-HT2C editing in depressed suicide victims. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000117594	 The protein encoded by this gene is a microsomal enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of the stress hormone cortisol to the inactive metabolite cortisone. In addition, the encoded protein can catalyze the reverse reaction, the conversion of cortisone to cortisol. Too much cortisol can lead to central obesity, and a particular variation in this gene has been associated with obesity and insulin resistance in children. Mutations in this gene and H6PD (hexose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (glucose 1-dehydrogenase)) are the cause of cortisone reductase deficiency. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000077238	 This gene encodes the alpha chain of the interleukin-4 receptor, a type I transmembrane protein that can bind interleukin 4 and interleukin 13 to regulate IgE production. The encoded protein also can bind interleukin 4 to promote differentiation of Th2 cells. A soluble form of the encoded protein can be produced by proteolysis of the membrane-bound protein, and this soluble form can inhibit IL4-mediated cell proliferation and IL5 upregulation by T-cells. Allelic variations in this gene have been associated with atopy, a condition that can manifest itself as allergic rhinitis, sinusitus, asthma, or eczema. Polymorphisms in this gene are also associated with resistance to human immunodeficiency virus type-1 infection. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000160712	 This gene encodes a subunit of the interleukin 6 (IL6) receptor complex. Interleukin 6 is a potent pleiotropic cytokine that regulates cell growth and differentiation and plays an important role in the immune response. The IL6 receptor is a protein complex consisting of this protein and interleukin 6 signal transducer (IL6ST/GP130/IL6-beta), a receptor subunit also shared by many other cytokines. Dysregulated production of IL6 and this receptor are implicated in the pathogenesis of many diseases, such as multiple myeloma, autoimmune diseases and prostate cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 9.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000118257	 This gene encodes a member of the neuropilin family of receptor proteins. The encoded transmembrane protein binds to SEMA3C protein {sema domain, immunoglobulin domain (Ig), short basic domain, secreted, (semaphorin) 3C} and SEMA3F protein {sema domain, immunoglobulin domain (Ig), short basic domain, secreted, (semaphorin) 3F}, and interacts with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). This protein may play a role in cardiovascular development, axon guidance, and tumorigenesis. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102010	 This gene encodes a non-receptor tyrosine kinase belonging to the Tec kinase family. The protein contains a PH-like domain, which mediates membrane targeting by binding to phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-triphosphate (PIP3), and a SH2 domain that binds to tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins and functions in signal transduction. The protein is implicated in several signal transduction pathways including the Stat pathway, and regulates differentiation and tumorigenicity of several types of cancer cells. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000243646	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cytokine receptor family. It is an accessory chain essential for the active interleukin 10 receptor complex. Coexpression of this and IL10RA proteins has been shown to be required for IL10-induced signal transduction. This gene and three other interferon receptor genes, IFAR2, IFNAR1, and IFNGR2, form a class II cytokine receptor gene cluster located in a small region on chromosome 21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184867	 This gene encodes a member of the ALEX family of proteins and may play a role in tumor suppression. The encoded protein contains a potential N-terminal transmembrane domain and a single Armadillo (arm) repeat. Other proteins containing the arm repeat are involved in development, maintenance of tissue integrity, and tumorigenesis. This gene is closely localized with other family members, including ALEX1 and ALEX3, on the X chromosome. Two alternative transcripts that encode the same protein but differ in the 5' UTR have been described. Additional alternative transcripts may exist but their full length natures have not been determined. A pseudogene for this locus is located on chromosome 7. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000089820	 This gene encodes a member of the rhoGAP family of proteins which play a role in the regulation of small GTP-binding proteins belonging to the RAS superfamily. The protein encoded by the orthologous gene in rat is localized to the Golgi complex and can redistribute to microtubules. The rat protein stimulates the activity of some Rho GTPases in vitro. Genomic deletions of this gene and a neighboring gene have been found in patients with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000135018	 This gene encodes an ubiquitin-like protein (ubiquilin) that shares a high degree of similarity with related products in yeast, rat and frog. Ubiquilins contain an N-terminal ubiquitin-like domain and a C-terminal ubiquitin-associated domain. They physically associate with both proteasomes and ubiquitin ligases, and thus are thought to functionally link the ubiquitination machinery to the proteasome to affect in vivo protein degradation. This ubiquilin has also been shown to modulate accumulation of presenilin proteins, and it is found in lesions associated with Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182389	 This gene encodes a member of the beta subunit family of voltage-dependent calcium channel complex proteins. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization and consist of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. Various versions of each of these subunits exist, either expressed from similar genes or the result of alternative splicing. The protein encoded by this locus plays an important role in calcium channel function by modulating G protein inhibition, increasing peak calcium current, controlling the alpha-1 subunit membrane targeting and shifting the voltage dependence of activation and inactivation. Certain mutations in this gene have been associated with idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE) and juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000128656	 This gene encodes GTPase-activating protein for ras-related p21-rac and a phorbol ester receptor. It is predominantly expressed in neurons, and plays an important role in neuronal signal-transduction mechanisms. Mutations in this gene are associated with Duane's retraction syndrome 2 (DURS2). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000187908	 Loss of sequences from human chromosome 10q has been associated with the progression of human cancers.  The gene DMBT1 was originally isolated based on its deletion in a medulloblastoma cell line.  DMBT1 is expressed with transcripts of 6.0, 7.5, and 8.0 kb in fetal lung and with one transcript of 8.0 kb in adult lung, although the 7.5 kb transcript has not been characterized. The DMBT1 protein is a glycoprotein containing multiple scavenger receptor cysteine-rich (SRCR) domains separated by SRCR-interspersed domains (SID).  Transcript variant 2 (8.0 kb) has been shown to bind surfactant protein D independently of carbohydrate recognition.  This indicates that DMBT1 may not be a classical tumor supressor gene, but rather play a role in the interaction of tumor cells and the immune system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148704	 This gene encodes a homeo-domain containing protein from a class of homeobox transcription factors which are conserved in vertebrates. Genes of this family are involved in the regulation of body development and morphogenesis. The most conserved genes, called HOX genes are found in special gene clusters. This gene belongs to the VAX subfamily and lies in the vicinity of the EMX homeobox gene family. Another member of VAX family is located on chromosome 2. The encoded protein may play an important role in the development of anterior ventral forebrain and visual system. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120708	 This gene encodes an RGD-containing protein that binds to type I, II and IV collagens. The RGD motif is found in many extracellular matrix proteins modulating cell adhesion and serves as a ligand recognition sequence for several integrins. This protein plays a role in cell-collagen interactions and may be involved in endochondrial bone formation in cartilage. The protein is induced by transforming growth factor-beta and acts to inhibit cell adhesion. Mutations in this gene are associated with multiple types of corneal dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133985	 This gene encodes a protein that contains three tetratricopeptide repeats. The gene has been shown to be hormonally regulated in breast cancer cells and may play a role in cancer cell invasion and metastasis. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000198331	 This gene encodes a protein localized to the cytoplasm. Mutations in this gene are associated with hydrolethalus syndrome. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000143341	 This gene encodes a large extracellular member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. A similar protein in C. elegans forms long, fine tracks at specific extracellular sites that are involved in many processes such as stabilization of the germline syncytium, anchorage of mechanosensory neurons to the epidermis, and organization of hemidesmosomes in the epidermis. Mutations in this gene may be associated with age-related macular degeneration. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110628	 This gene is one of several tumor-suppressing subtransferable fragments located in the imprinted gene domain of 11p15.5, an important tumor-suppressor gene region. Alterations in this region have been associated with the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, and lung, ovarian, and breast cancer. This gene is imprinted, with preferential expression from the maternal allele. Mutations in this gene have been found in Wilms' tumor and lung cancer. This protein may act as a transporter of organic cations, and have a role in the transport of chloroquine and quinidine-related compounds in kidney. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000204120	 The protein encoded by this gene interacts with GRB10 and may be involved in the regulation of tyrosine kinase receptor signaling. This gene contains CAG repeats, and the encoded protein contains stretches glutamine and glutamic acid residues. Defects in this gene are a cause of Parkinson disease type 11 (PARK11). Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000160710	 This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for RNA editing by site-specific deamination of adenosines. This enzyme destabilizes double-stranded RNA through conversion of adenosine to inosine. Mutations in this gene have been associated with dyschromatosis symmetrica hereditaria. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000142856	 This gene encodes a transcriptional coregulator that binds to and enhances the activity of members of the nuclear receptor families, thyroid hormone receptors and retinoid X receptors. This protein also acts as a corepressor of NF-kappaB-dependent signaling. This protein induces apoptosis in breast cancer cells through a caspase 2-mediated signaling pathway. This protein is also a component of the centromere-specific histone H3 variant nucleosome associated complex (CENP-NAC) and may be involved in mitotic progression by recruiting the histone H3 variant CENP-A to the centromere. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000112964	 This gene encodes a member of the type I cytokine receptor family, which is a transmembrane receptor for growth hormone. Binding of growth hormone to the receptor leads to receptor dimerization and the activation of an intra- and intercellular signal transduction pathway leading to growth. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Laron syndrome, also known as the growth hormone insensitivity syndrome (GHIS), a disorder characterized by short stature. In humans and rabbits, but not rodents, growth hormone binding protein (GHBP) is generated by proteolytic cleavage of the extracellular ligand-binding domain from the mature growth hormone receptor protein. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000213022	 The protein encoded by this gene is a kallikrein-related serine protease. This gene is activated by steroid hormones in a human breast cancer cell line, making it a good marker for cancer detection. The encoded protein is found primarily in the cytoplasm.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000162946	 This gene encodes a protein with multiple coiled coil motifs which is located in the nucleus, cytoplasm and mitochondria. The protein is involved in neurite outgrowth and cortical development through its interaction with other proteins. This gene is disrupted in a t(1;11)(q42.1;q14.3) translocation which segregates with schizophrenia and related psychiatric disorders in a large Scottish family. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164307	 The protein encoded by this gene is an aminopeptidase involved in trimming HLA class I-binding precursors so that they can be presented on MHC class I molecules. The encoded protein acts as a monomer or as a heterodimer with ERAP2. This protein may also be involved in blood pressure regulation by inactivation of angiotensin II. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000204279	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL158819.14. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000100504	 This gene encodes a homodimeric protein that catalyses the cleavage of alpha-1,4-glucosidic bonds to release glucose-1-phosphate from liver glycogen stores. This protein switches from inactive phosphorylase B to active phosphorylase A by phosphorylation of serine residue 15. Activity of this enzyme is further regulated by multiple allosteric effectors and hormonal controls. Humans have three glycogen phosphorylase genes that encode distinct isozymes that are primarily expressed in liver, brain and muscle, respectively. The liver isozyme serves the glycemic demands of the body in general while the brain and muscle isozymes supply just those tissues. In glycogen storage disease type VI, also known as Hers disease, mutations in liver glycogen phosphorylase inhibit the conversion of glycogen to glucose and results in moderate hypoglycemia, mild ketosis, growth retardation and hepatomegaly. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000157766	 This gene is a member of the aggrecan/versican proteoglycan family. The encoded protein is an integral part of the extracellular matrix in cartilagenous tissue and it withstands compression in cartilage. Mutations in this gene may be involved in skeletal dysplasia and spinal degeneration. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been observed in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000141458	 This gene encodes a large protein that resides in the limiting membrane of endosomes and lysosomes and mediates intracellular cholesterol trafficking via binding of cholesterol to its N-terminal domain. It is predicted to have a cytoplasmic C-terminus, 13 transmembrane domains, and 3 large loops in the lumen of the endosome - the last loop being at the N-terminus. This protein transports low-density lipoproteins to late endosomal/lysosomal compartments where they are hydrolized and released as free cholesterol. Defects in this gene cause Niemann-Pick type C disease, a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by over accumulation of cholesterol and glycosphingolipids in late endosomal/lysosomal compartments.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000172476	 This gene encodes a member of the Rab40 subfamily of Rab small GTP-binding proteins that contains a C-terminal suppressors of cytokine signaling box. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000080815	 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with an inherited form of the disease carry mutations in the presenilin proteins (PSEN1; PSEN2) or in the amyloid precursor protein (APP). These disease-linked mutations result in increased production of the longer form of amyloid-beta (main component of amyloid deposits found in AD brains). Presenilins are postulated to regulate APP processing through their effects on gamma-secretase, an enzyme that cleaves APP. Also, it is thought that the presenilins are involved in the cleavage of the Notch receptor, such that they either directly regulate gamma-secretase activity or themselves are protease enzymes. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene, the full-length nature of only some have been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000177807	 This gene encodes a member of the inward rectifier-type potassium channel family, characterized by having a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into, rather than out of, a cell. The encoded protein may form a heterodimer with another potassium channel protein and may be responsible for the potassium buffering action of glial cells in the brain. Mutations in this gene have been associated with seizure susceptibility of common idiopathic generalized epilepsy syndromes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160460	 Spectrin is an actin crosslinking and molecular scaffold protein that links the plasma membrane to the actin cytoskeleton, and functions in the determination of cell shape, arrangement of transmembrane proteins, and organization of organelles. It is composed of two antiparallel dimers of alpha- and beta- subunits. This gene is one member of a family of beta-spectrin genes. The encoded protein localizes to the nuclear matrix, PML nuclear bodies, and cytoplasmic vesicles. A highly similar gene in the mouse is required for localization of specific membrane proteins in polarized regions of neurons. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120889	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily, and contains an intracellular death domain. This receptor can be activated by tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TNFSF10/TRAIL/APO-2L), and transduces an apoptosis signal. Studies with FADD-deficient mice suggested that FADD, a death domain containing adaptor protein, is required for the apoptosis mediated by this protein. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms and one non-coding transcript have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000156052	 This locus encodes a guanine nucleotide-binding protein. The encoded protein, an alpha subunit in the Gq class, couples a seven-transmembrane domain receptor to activation of phospolipase C-beta. Mutations at this locus have been associated with problems in platelet activation and aggregation. A related pseudogene exists on chromosome 2.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000168646	 The Axin-related protein, Axin2, presumably plays an important role in the regulation of the stability of beta-catenin in the Wnt signaling pathway, like its rodent homologs, mouse conductin/rat axil. In mouse, conductin organizes a multiprotein complex of APC (adenomatous polyposis of the colon), beta-catenin, glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta, and conductin, which leads to the degradation of beta-catenin. Apparently, the deregulation of beta-catenin is an important event in the genesis of a number of malignancies. The AXIN2 gene has been mapped to 17q23-q24, a region that shows frequent loss of heterozygosity in breast cancer, neuroblastoma, and other tumors. Mutations in this gene have been associated with colorectal cancer with defective mismatch repair. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178971	 This gene encodes a component of the CST complex. This complex plays an essential role in protecting telomeres from degradation. This protein also forms a heterodimer with the CST complex subunit STN1 to form the enzyme alpha accessory factor. This enzyme regulates DNA replication. Mutations in this gene are the cause of cerebroretinal microangiopathy with calcifications and cysts. Alternate splicing results in both coding and non-coding variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000172016	 This gene encodes a pancreatic secretory protein that may be involved in cell proliferation or differentiation. It has similarity to the C-type lectin superfamily. The enhanced expression of this gene is observed during pancreatic inflammation and liver carcinogenesis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000178127	 The NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex (complex I) of the mitochondrial respiratory chain catalyzes the transfer of electrons from NADH to ubiquinone, and consists of at least 43 subunits. The complex is located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. This gene encodes the 24 kDa subunit of complex I, and is involved in electron transfer. Mutations in this gene are implicated in Parkinson's disease, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and have been found in one case of early onset hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and encephalopathy. A non-transcribed pseudogene of this locus is found on chromosome 19. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000135723	 This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the formin/diaphanous family of proteins. The gene is ubiquitously expressed but is found in abundance in the spleen. The encoded protein has sequence homology to diaphanous and formin proteins within the Formin Homology (FH)1 and FH2 domains. It also contains a coiled-coil domain, a collagen-like domain, two nuclear localization signals, and several potential PKC and PKA phosphorylation sites. It is a predominantly cytoplasmic protein and is expressed in a variety of human cell lines. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198807	 This gene is a member of the paired box (PAX) family of transcription factors. Members of this gene family typically contain a paired box domain, an octapeptide, and a paired-type homeodomain. These genes play critical roles during fetal development and cancer growth. The specific function of the paired box 9 gene is unknown but it may involve development of stratified squamous epithelia as well as various organs and skeletal elements. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000177000	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate to 5-methyltetrahydrofolate, a co-substrate for homocysteine remethylation to methionine. Genetic variation in this gene influences susceptibility to occlusive vascular disease, neural tube defects, colon cancer and acute leukemia, and mutations in this gene are associated with methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase deficiency.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000151623	 This gene encodes the mineralocorticoid receptor, which mediates aldosterone actions on salt and water balance within restricted target cells. The protein functions as a ligand-dependent transcription factor that binds to mineralocorticoid response elements in order to transactivate target genes. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant pseudohypoaldosteronism type I, a disorder characterized by urinary salt wasting. Defects in this gene are also associated with early onset hypertension with severe exacerbation in pregnancy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000167792	 The mitochondrial respiratory chain provides energy to cells via oxidative phosphorylation and consists of four membrane-bound electron-transporting protein complexes (I-IV) and an ATP synthase (complex V). This gene encodes a 51 kDa subunit of the NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex I; a large complex with at least 45 nuclear and mitochondrial encoded subunits that liberates electrons from NADH and channels them to ubiquinone. This subunit carries the NADH-binding site as well as flavin mononucleotide (FMN)- and Fe-S-biding sites. Defects in complex I are a common cause of mitochondrial dysfunction; a syndrome that occurs in approximately 1 in 10,000 live births. Mitochondrial complex I deficiency is linked to myopathies, encephalomyopathies, and neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease and Leigh syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000158864	 The protein encoded by this gene is a core subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (complex I). Mammalian mitochondrial complex I is composed of at least 43 different subunits, 7 of which are encoded by the mitochondrial genome, and the rest are the products of nuclear genes. The iron-sulfur protein fraction of complex I is made up of 7 subunits, including this gene product. Complex I catalyzes the NADH oxidation with concomitant ubiquinone reduction and proton ejection out of the mitochondria. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex I deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000105711	 Voltage-gated sodium channels are heteromeric proteins that function in the generation and propagation of action potentials in muscle and neuronal cells. They are composed of one alpha and two beta subunits, where the alpha subunit provides channel activity and the beta-1 subunit modulates the kinetics of channel inactivation. This gene encodes a sodium channel beta-1 subunit. Mutations in this gene result in generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus, Brugada syndrome 5, and defects in cardiac conduction. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000124299	 This gene encodes a member of the peptidase family. The protein forms a homodimer that hydrolyzes dipeptides or tripeptides with C-terminal proline or hydroxyproline residues. The enzyme serves an important role in the recycling of proline, and may be rate limiting for the production of collagen. Mutations in this gene result in prolidase deficiency, which is characterized by the excretion of large amount of di- and tri-peptides containing proline. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000111670	 This gene encodes two of three subunit types of the membrane-bound enzyme N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase, a heterohexameric complex composed of two alpha, two beta, and two gamma subunits. The encoded protein is proteolytically cleaved at the Lys928-Asp929 bond to yield mature alpha and beta polypeptides while the gamma subunits are the product of a distinct gene (GeneID 84572). In the Golgi apparatus, the heterohexameric complex catalyzes the first step in the synthesis of mannose 6-phosphate recognition markers on certain oligosaccharides of newly synthesized lysosomal enzymes. These recognition markers are essential for appropriate trafficking of lysosomal enzymes. Mutations in this gene have been associated with both mucolipidosis II and mucolipidosis IIIA.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000155008	 This gene encodes a protein which contains an apolipoprotein O superfamily domain. This domain is found on proteins in circulating lipoprotein complexes. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000162551	 There are at least four distinct but related alkaline phosphatases: intestinal, placental, placental-like, and liver/bone/kidney (tissue non-specific). The first three are located together on chromosome 2, while the tissue non-specific form is located on chromosome 1. The product of this gene is a membrane bound glycosylated enzyme that is not expressed in any particular tissue and is, therefore, referred to as the tissue-nonspecific form of the enzyme. The exact physiological function of the alkaline phosphatases is not known. A proposed function of this form of the enzyme is matrix mineralization; however, mice that lack a functional form of this enzyme show normal skeletal development. This enzyme has been linked directly to hypophosphatasia, a disorder that is characterized by hypercalcemia and includes skeletal defects. The character of this disorder can vary, however, depending on the specific mutation since this determines age of onset and severity of symptoms. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000118271	 This gene encodes transthyretin, one of the three prealbumins including alpha-1-antitrypsin, transthyretin and orosomucoid. Transthyretin is a carrier protein; it transports thyroid hormones in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid, and also transports retinol (vitamin A) in the plasma. The protein consists of a tetramer of identical subunits. More than 80 different mutations in this gene have been reported; most mutations are related to amyloid deposition, affecting predominantly peripheral nerve and/or the heart, and a small portion of the gene mutations is non-amyloidogenic. The diseases caused by mutations include amyloidotic polyneuropathy, euthyroid hyperthyroxinaemia, amyloidotic vitreous opacities, cardiomyopathy, oculoleptomeningeal amyloidosis, meningocerebrovascular amyloidosis, carpal tunnel syndrome, etc. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000140443	 This receptor binds insulin-like growth factor with a high affinity. It has tyrosine kinase activity. The insulin-like growth factor I receptor plays a critical role in transformation events. Cleavage of the precursor generates alpha and beta subunits. It is highly overexpressed in most malignant tissues where it functions as an anti-apoptotic agent by enhancing cell survival. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157502	 This gene encodes a protein which contains a mutated melanoma-associated antigen 1 domain. Proteins which contain mutated antigens are expressed at high levels on certain types of cancers. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000160808	 MYL3 encodes myosin light chain 3, an alkali light chain also referred to in the literature as both the ventricular isoform and the slow skeletal muscle isoform. Mutations in MYL3 have been identified as a cause of mid-left ventricular chamber type hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000181555	 Huntington's disease (HD), a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of striatal neurons, is caused by an expansion of a polyglutamine tract in the HD protein huntingtin. This gene encodes a protein belonging to a class of huntingtin interacting proteins characterized by WW motifs. This protein is a histone methyltransferase that is specific for lysine-36 of histone H3, and methylation of this residue is associated with active chromatin. This protein also contains a novel transcriptional activation domain and has been found associated with hyperphosphorylated RNA polymerase II. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000120254	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the synthesis of tetrahydrofolate (THF) in the mitochondrion. THF is important in the de novo synthesis of purines and thymidylate and in the regeneration of methionine from homocysteine. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000122786	 This gene encodes a calmodulin- and actin-binding protein that plays an essential role in the regulation of smooth muscle and nonmuscle contraction. The conserved domain of this protein possesses the binding activities to Ca(2+)-calmodulin, actin, tropomyosin, myosin, and phospholipids. This protein is a potent inhibitor of the actin-tropomyosin activated myosin MgATPase, and serves as a mediating factor for Ca(2+)-dependent inhibition of smooth muscle contraction. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000150051	 The protein encoded by this gene is an IRX family-related homeobox protein that may play a role in cell adhesion. Studies in mice suggest that this protein may be a regulator of tendon development. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000155974	 This gene encodes a member of the glutamate receptor interacting protein family. The encoded scaffold protein binds to and mediates the trafficking and membrane organization of a number of transmembrane proteins. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000144290	 This gene belongs to a small family of sodium-coupled bicarbonate transporters (NCBTs) that regulate the intracellular pH of neurons, the secretion of bicarbonate ions across the choroid plexus, and the pH of the brain extracellular fluid. The protein encoded by this gene was initially identified as a sodium-driven chloride bicarbonate exchanger (NCBE) though there is now evidence that its sodium/bicarbonate cotransport activity is independent of any chloride ion countertransport under physiological conditions. This gene is now classified as a member A10 of the SLC4 family of transmembrane solute carriers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000111266	 This gene encodes a mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase that is a member of the dual specificity protein phosphatase subfamily. These phosphatases inactivate their target kinases by dephosphorylating both the phosphoserine/threonine and phosphotyrosine residues. The encoded protein specifically regulates the c-Jun amino-terminal kinase (JNK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathways.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000166546	 The protein encoded by this gene is one of several proteins that interact with NEDD4, a member of a family of ubiquitin-protein ligases. These proteins have PY motifs in common that bind to the WW domains of NEDD4. NEDD4 is developmentally regulated, and is highly expressed in embryonic tissues. Mutations in this gene (i.e., intronic insertions of >100 copies of pentanucleotide repeats including a (TGGAA)n sequence) are associated with spinocerebellar ataxia type 31. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000204516	 This gene encodes a heavily glycosylated protein which is a ligand for the NKG2D type II receptor. Binding of the ligand activates the cytolytic response of natural killer (NK) cells, CD8 alphabeta T cells, and gammadelta T cells which express the receptor. This protein is stress-induced and is similar to MHC class I molecules; however, it does not associate with beta-2-microglobulin or bind peptides. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000154639	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane receptor for group B coxsackieviruses and subgroup C adenoviruses. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 15, 18, and 21. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000129245	 The protein encoded by this gene is a RNA binding protein containing two KH domains and one RCG box, which is similar to FMRP and FXR1. It associates with polyribosomes, predominantly with 60S large ribosomal subunits. This encoded protein may self-associate or interact with FMRP and FXR1. It may have a role in the development of fragile X mental retardation syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000121957	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of proteins that modulate activation of G proteins, which transduce extracellular signals received by cell surface receptors into integrated cellular responses. The N-terminal half of this protein contains 10 copies of leu-gly-asn (LGN) repeat, and the C-terminal half contains 4 GoLoco motifs, which are involved in guanine nucleotide exchange. This protein may play a role in neuroblast division and in the development of normal hearing. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness (DFNB82).[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000143217	 This gene encodes a member of the nectin family. The encoded protein contains two immunoglobulin-like (Ig-like) C2-type domains and one Ig-like V-type domain. It is involved in cell adhesion through trans-homophilic and -heterophilic interactions. It is a single-pass type I membrane protein. The soluble form is produced by proteolytic cleavage at the cell surface by the metalloproteinase ADAM17/TACE. The secreted form is found in both breast tumor cell lines and breast tumor patients. Mutations in this gene are the cause of ectodermal dysplasia-syndactyly syndrome type 1, an autosomal recessive disorder. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found but the full-length nature of the variant has not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000106290	 Initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II requires the activities of more than 70 polypeptides. The protein that coordinates these activities is transcription factor IID (TFIID), which binds to the core promoter to position the polymerase properly, serves as the scaffold for assembly of the remainder of the transcription complex, and acts as a channel for regulatory signals. TFIID is composed of the TATA-binding protein (TBP) and a group of evolutionarily conserved proteins known as TBP-associated factors or TAFs. TAFs may participate in basal transcription, serve as coactivators, function in promoter recognition or modify general transcription factors (GTFs) to facilitate complex assembly and transcription initiation. This gene encodes one of the smaller subunits of TFIID that binds weakly to TBP but strongly to TAF1, the largest subunit of TFIID. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000160211	 This gene encodes glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. This protein is a cytosolic enzyme encoded by a housekeeping X-linked gene whose main function is to produce NADPH, a key electron donor in the defense against oxidizing agents and in reductive biosynthetic reactions. G6PD is remarkable for its genetic diversity. Many variants of G6PD, mostly produced from missense mutations, have been described with wide ranging levels of enzyme activity and associated clinical symptoms. G6PD deficiency may cause neonatal jaundice, acute hemolysis, or severe chronic non-spherocytic hemolytic anemia. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000213614	 This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the lysosomal enzyme beta-hexosaminidase that, together with the cofactor GM2 activator protein, catalyzes the degradation of the ganglioside GM2, and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines. Beta-hexosaminidase is composed of two subunits, alpha and beta, which are encoded by separate genes. Both beta-hexosaminidase alpha and beta subunits are members of family 20 of glycosyl hydrolases. Mutations in the alpha or beta subunit genes lead to an accumulation of GM2 ganglioside in neurons and neurodegenerative disorders termed the GM2 gangliosidoses. Alpha subunit gene mutations lead to Tay-Sachs disease (GM2-gangliosidosis type I). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000163104	 This gene encodes a member of the SNF subfamily of helicase proteins. The encoded protein plays a critical role in the restoration of heterochromatin organization and propagation of epigenetic patterns following DNA replication by mediating histone H3/H4 deacetylation. Mutations in this gene are associated with adermatoglyphia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000179855	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the GIPC family. Studies in mice suggest that this gene is required for postnatal maturation of the hair bundle and long-term survival of hair cells and spiral ganglion in the ear. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000182944	 This gene encodes a multifunctional protein that is involved in various cellular processes, including gene expression, cell signaling, and RNA processing and transport. The protein includes an N-terminal transcriptional activation domain and a C-terminal RNA-binding domain. Chromosomal translocations between this gene and various genes encoding transcription factors result in the production of chimeric proteins that are involved in tumorigenesis. These chimeric proteins usually consist of the N-terminal transcriptional activation domain of this protein fused to the C-terminal DNA-binding domain of the transcription factor protein. Mutations in this gene, specifically a t(11;22)(q24;q12) translocation, are known to cause Ewing sarcoma as well as neuroectodermal and various other tumors. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1 and 14. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000160856	 This gene encodes a member of the immunoglobulin receptor superfamily and is one of several Fc receptor-like glycoproteins clustered on the long arm of chromosome 1. The encoded protein contains immunoreceptor-tyrosine activation motifs and immunoreceptor-tyrosine inhibitory motifs in its cytoplasmic domain and may play a role in regulation of the immune system. Mutations in this gene have been associated with rheumatoid arthritis, autoimmune thyroid disease, and systemic lupus erythematosus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000077800	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin protein family, which play a role in immunoregulation and basic cellular processes involving protein folding and trafficking. The protein may have cis-trans prolyl isomerase activity, and binds to clathrin heavy chain and heat shock protein 72. This gene is found to be deleted in Williams syndrome, and the orthologous gene in mouse is essential for fertility and homologous pairing in male meiosis. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000177731	 This gene encodes a protein with a gelsolin-like actin binding domain and an N-terminal leucine-rich repeat-protein protein interaction domain. The protein is similar to a Drosophila protein involved in early embryogenesis and the structural organization of indirect flight muscle. The gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136877	 This gene encodes the folylpolyglutamate synthetase enzyme. This enzyme has a central role in establishing and maintaining both cytosolic and mitochondrial folylpolyglutamate concentrations and, therefore, is essential for folate homeostasis and the survival of proliferating cells. This enzyme catalyzes the ATP-dependent addition of glutamate moieties to folate and folate derivatives. While several transcript variants may exist for this gene, the full-length natures of only two have been biologically validated to date. These two variants encode distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168237	 This locus encodes a member of the glycerate kinase type-2 family. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the phosphorylation of (R)-glycerate and may be involved in serine degradation and fructose metabolism. Decreased activity of the encoded enzyme may be associated with the disease D-glyceric aciduria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000205571	 This gene is part of a 500 kb inverted duplication on chromosome 5q13. This duplicated region contains at least four genes and repetitive elements which make it prone to rearrangements and deletions. The repetitiveness and complexity of the sequence have also caused difficulty in determining the organization of this genomic region. The telomeric and centromeric copies of this gene are nearly identical and encode the same protein. While mutations in the telomeric copy are associated with spinal muscular atrophy, mutations in this gene, the centromeric copy, do not lead to disease. This gene may be a modifier of disease caused by mutation in the telomeric copy. The critical sequence difference between the two genes is a single nucleotide in exon 7, which is thought to be an exon splice enhancer. Note that the nine exons of both the telomeric and centromeric copies are designated historically as exon 1, 2a, 2b, and 3-8. It is thought that gene conversion events may involve the two genes, leading to varying copy numbers of each gene. The full length protein encoded by this gene localizes to both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. Within the nucleus, the protein localizes to subnuclear bodies called gems which are found near coiled bodies containing high concentrations of small ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs). This protein forms heteromeric complexes with proteins such as SIP1 and GEMIN4, and also interacts with several proteins known to be involved in the biogenesis of snRNPs, such as hnRNP U protein and the small nucleolar RNA binding protein. Four transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000249437	 This gene is part of a 500 kb inverted duplication on chromosome 5q13. This duplicated region contains at least four genes and repetitive elements which make it prone to rearrangements and deletions. The repetitiveness and complexity of the sequence have also caused difficulty in determining the organization of this genomic region. This copy of the gene is full length; additional copies with truncations and internal deletions are also present in this region of chromosome 5q13. It is thought that this gene is a modifier of spinal muscular atrophy caused by mutations in a neighboring gene, SMN1. The protein encoded by this gene contains regions of homology to two baculovirus inhibitor of apoptosis proteins, and it is able to suppress apoptosis induced by various signals. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137843	 This gene encodes a member of a family of p21-stimulated serine/threonine protein kinases, which contain an amino-terminal Cdc42/Rac interactive binding (CRIB) domain and a carboxyl-terminal kinase domain. These kinases function in a number of cellular processes, including cytoskeleton rearrangement, apoptosis, and the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase signaling pathway. The protein encoded by this gene interacts with androgen receptor (AR) and translocates to the nucleus, where it is involved in transcriptional regulation. Changes in expression of this gene have been linked to prostate cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000105852	 This gene is a member of the paraoxonase family and lies in a cluster on chromosome 7 with the other two family members. The encoded protein is secreted into the bloodstream and associates with high-density lipoprotein (HDL). The protein also rapidly hydrolyzes lactones and can inhibit the oxidation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), a function that is believed to slow the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis. Alternatively spliced variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described; however, only one has been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128342	 The protein encoded by this gene is a pleiotropic cytokine with roles in several different systems. It is involved in the induction of hematopoietic differentiation in normal and myeloid leukemia cells, induction of neuronal cell differentiation, regulator of mesenchymal to epithelial conversion during kidney development, and may also have a role in immune tolerance at the maternal-fetal interface. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000113083	 The protein encoded by this gene is an extracellular copper enzyme that initiates the crosslinking of collagens and elastin. The enzyme catalyzes oxidative deamination of the epsilon-amino group in certain lysine and hydroxylysine residues of collagens and lysine residues of elastin. In addition to crosslinking extracellular matrix proteins, the encoded protein may have a role in tumor suppression. Defects in this gene are a cause of autosomal recessive cutis laxa type I (CL type I). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000152104	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains an N-terminal noncatalytic domain similar to that of band 4.1 superfamily cytoskeleton-associated proteins, which suggested the membrane or cytoskeleton localization of this protein. It appears to regulate lymphatic development in mammals, and a loss of function mutation has been found in a kindred with a lymphedema-choanal atresia. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000173083	 Heparan sulfate proteoglycans are major components of the basement membrane and extracellular matrix. The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that cleaves heparan sulfate proteoglycans to permit cell movement through remodeling of the extracellular matrix. In addition, this cleavage can release bioactive molecules from the extracellular matrix. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000186862	 This gene encodes a ciliary protein homologous to proteins which are mutated in Usher syndrome patients, and mutations and translocations involving this gene have been associated with two types of Usher syndrome. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000115353	 This gene belongs to a gene family of tachykinin receptors. These tachykinin receptors are characterized by interactions with G proteins and contain seven hydrophobic transmembrane regions. This gene encodes the receptor for the tachykinin substance P, also referred to as neurokinin 1. The encoded protein is also involved in the mediation of phosphatidylinositol metabolism of substance P. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000253710	 This gene encodes a GDP-Man:Man3GlcNAc2-PP-dolichol-alpha1,2-mannosyltransferase which is localized to the cytosolic side of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and catalyzes the transfer of the fourth and fifth mannose residue from GDP-mannose (GDP-Man) to Man3GlcNAc2-PP-dolichol and Man4GlcNAc2-PP-dolichol resulting in the production of Man5GlcNAc2-PP-dolichol. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ip (CDGIP). This gene overlaps but is distinct from the UTP14, U3 small nucleolar ribonucleoprotein, homolog C (yeast) gene. A pseudogene of the GDP-Man:Man3GlcNAc2-PP-dolichol-alpha1,2-mannosyltransferase has been identified on chromosome 19. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000081051	 This gene encodes alpha-fetoprotein, a major plasma protein produced by the yolk sac and the liver during fetal life. Alpha-fetoprotein expression in adults is often associated with hepatoma or teratoma. However, hereditary persistance of alpha-fetoprotein may also be found in individuals with no obvious pathology. The protein is thought to be the fetal counterpart of serum albumin, and the alpha-fetoprotein and albumin genes are present in tandem in the same transcriptional orientation on chromosome 4. Alpha-fetoprotein is found in monomeric as well as dimeric and trimeric forms, and binds copper, nickel, fatty acids and bilirubin. The level of alpha-fetoprotein in amniotic fluid is used to measure renal loss of protein to screen for spina bifida and anencephaly. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124256	 This gene encodes a Z-DNA binding protein. The encoded protein plays a role in the innate immune response by binding to foreign DNA and inducing type-I interferon production. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000013503	 This gene encodes the second largest subunit of RNA polymerase III, the polymerase responsible for synthesizing transfer and small ribosomal RNAs in eukaryotes. The largest subunit and the encoded protein form the catalytic center of RNA polymerase III. Mutations in this gene are a cause of hypomyelinating leukodystrophy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000136634	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine produced primarily by monocytes and to a lesser extent by lymphocytes. This cytokine has pleiotropic effects in immunoregulation and inflammation. It down-regulates the expression of Th1 cytokines, MHC class II Ags, and costimulatory molecules on macrophages. It also enhances B cell survival, proliferation, and antibody production. This cytokine can block NF-kappa B activity, and is involved in the regulation of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. Knockout studies in mice suggested the function of this cytokine as an essential immunoregulator in the intestinal tract. Mutations in this gene are associated with an increased susceptibility to HIV-1 infection and rheumatoid arthritis.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000168621	 This gene encodes a highly conserved neurotrophic factor. The recombinant form of this protein was shown to promote the survival and differentiation of dopaminergic neurons in culture, and was able to prevent apoptosis of motor neurons induced by axotomy. The encoded protein is processed to a mature secreted form that exists as a homodimer. The mature form of the protein is a ligand for the product of the RET (rearranged during transfection) protooncogene. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Mutations in this gene may be associated with Hirschsprung disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000143627	 The protein encoded by this gene is a pyruvate kinase that catalyzes the transphosphorylation of phohsphoenolpyruvate into pyruvate and ATP, which is the rate-limiting step of glycolysis. Defects in this enzyme, due to gene mutations or genetic variations, are the common cause of chronic hereditary nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia (CNSHA or HNSHA). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137834	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SMAD family of proteins, which are related to Drosophila 'mothers against decapentaplegic' (Mad) and C. elegans Sma. SMAD proteins are signal transducers and transcriptional modulators that mediate multiple signaling pathways. This protein functions in the negative regulation of BMP and TGF-beta/activin-signalling. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000011465	 The protein encoded by this gene is a small cellular or pericellular matrix proteoglycan that is closely related in structure to biglycan protein. The encoded protein and biglycan are thought to be the result of a gene duplication. This protein is a component of connective tissue, binds to type I collagen fibrils, and plays a role in matrix assembly. It contains one attached glycosaminoglycan chain. This protein is capable of suppressing the growth of various tumor cell lines. There are multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants known for this gene. This gene is a candidate gene for Marfan syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138032	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PP2C family of Ser/Thr protein phosphatases. PP2C family members are known to be negative regulators of cell stress response pathways. This phosphatase has been shown to dephosphorylate cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), and thus may be involved in cell cycle control. Overexpression of this phosphatase is reported to cause cell-growth arrest or cell death. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Additional transcript variants have been described, but currently do not represent full-length sequences. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116030	 This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the SUMO (small ubiquitin-like modifier) protein family. It functions in a manner similar to ubiquitin in that it is bound to target proteins as part of a post-translational modification system. However, unlike ubiquitin which targets proteins for degradation, this protein is involved in a variety of cellular processes, such as nuclear transport, transcriptional regulation, apoptosis, and protein stability. It is not active until the last four amino acids of the carboxy-terminus have been cleaved off. Several pseudogenes have been reported for this gene. Alternate transcriptional splice variants encoding different isoforms have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184160	 Alpha-2-adrenergic receptors are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. They include 3 highly homologous subtypes: alpha2A, alpha2B, and alpha2C. These receptors have a critical role in regulating neurotransmitter release from sympathetic nerves and from adrenergic neurons in the central nervous system. The mouse studies revealed that both the alpha2A and alpha2C subtypes were required for normal presynaptic control of transmitter release from sympathetic nerves in the heart and from central noradrenergic neurons. The alpha2A subtype inhibited transmitter release at high stimulation frequencies, whereas the alpha2C subtype modulated neurotransmission at lower levels of nerve activity. This gene encodes the alpha2C subtype, which contains no introns in either its coding or untranslated sequences. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165659	 This gene encodes a chromatin-associated protein that associates with other DNA-binding transcription factors to regulate gene expression and cell fate determination during development. The protein contains a Ski domain that is highly conserved from Drosophila to human. Expression of this gene is lost in some forms of metastatic cancer, and is correlated with poor prognosis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000100823	 Apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) sites occur frequently in DNA molecules by spontaneous hydrolysis, by DNA damaging agents or by DNA glycosylases that remove specific abnormal bases. AP sites are pre-mutagenic lesions that can prevent normal DNA replication so the cell contains systems to identify and repair such sites. Class II AP endonucleases cleave the phosphodiester backbone 5' to the AP site. This gene encodes the major AP endonuclease in human cells. Splice variants have been found for this gene; all encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000050748	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the MAP kinase family. MAP kinases act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals, and are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development. This kinase targets specific transcription factors, and thus mediates immediate-early gene expression in response to various cell stimuli. It is most closely related to MAPK8, both of which are involved in UV radiation induced apoptosis, thought to be related to the cytochrome c-mediated cell death pathway. This gene and MAPK8 are also known as c-Jun N-terminal kinases. This kinase blocks the ubiquitination of tumor suppressor p53, and thus it increases the stability of p53 in nonstressed cells. Studies of this gene's mouse counterpart suggest a key role in T-cell differentiation. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000096060	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin protein family, which play a role in immunoregulation and basic cellular processes involving protein folding and trafficking. This encoded protein is a cis-trans prolyl isomerase that binds to the immunosuppressants FK506 and rapamycin. It is thought to mediate calcineurin inhibition. It also interacts functionally with mature hetero-oligomeric progesterone receptor complexes along with the 90 kDa heat shock protein and P23 protein. This gene has been found to have multiple polyadenylation sites. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000101843	 This gene encodes a subunit of the PA700/19S complex, which is the regulatory component of the 26S proteasome. The 26S proteosome complex is required for ubiquitin-dependent protein degradation. This protein is a non-ATPase subunit that may be involved in protein-protein interactions. Aberrant expression of this gene may paly a role in tumorigenesis. Two transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 3 and 20.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000094841	 This gene encodes uracil phosphoribosyltransferase, which catalyzes the conversion of uracil and 5-phosphoribosyl-1-R-diphosphate to uridine monophosphate (UMP). This reaction is an important part of nucleotide metabolism, specifically the pyrimidine salvage pathway. The enzyme localizes to the nucleus and cytoplasm. The protein is a potential target for rational design of drugs to treat parasitic infections and cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000108602	 Aldehyde dehydrogenases oxidize various aldehydes to the corresponding acids. They are involved in the detoxification of alcohol-derived acetaldehyde and in the metabolism of corticosteroids, biogenic amines, neurotransmitters, and lipid peroxidation. The enzyme encoded by this gene forms a cytoplasmic homodimer that preferentially oxidizes aromatic and medium-chain (6 carbons or more) saturated and unsaturated aldehyde substrates. It is thought to promote resistance to UV and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-induced oxidative damage in the cornea. The gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000102032	 The gene product inhibits renin activity by forming a dimer with renin, a complex known as high molecular weight renin. The encoded protein contains a leucine zipper domain, which is essential for its dimerization with renin. The gene product can catalyze the interconversion of N-acetylglucosamine to N-acetylmannosamine, indicating that it is a GlcNAc 2-epimerase. Transcript variants utilizing alternative promoters have been described in the literature. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119711	 This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenases family of proteins. This enzyme plays a role in the valine and pyrimidine catabolic pathways. The product of this gene, a mitochondrial methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase, catalyzes the irreversible oxidative decarboxylation of malonate and methylmalonate semialdehydes to acetyl- and propionyl-CoA. Methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency is characterized by elevated beta-alanine, 3-hydroxypropionic acid, and both isomers of 3-amino and 3-hydroxyisobutyric acids in urine organic acids. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143149	 This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. It has a high activity for oxidation of gamma-aminobutyraldehyde and other amino aldehydes. The enzyme catalyzes the dehydrogenation of gamma-aminobutyraldehyde to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). This isozyme is a tetramer of identical 54-kD subunits. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132746	 This gene encodes a member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase family, a group of isozymes that may play a major role in the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism and lipid peroxidation. The gene of this particular family member is over 10 kb in length. The expression of these transcripts is restricted to the salivary gland among the human tissues examined. Alternate transcriptional splice variants have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198205	 This gene encodes one of two duplicated zinc finger genes on chromosome Xp11. This gene is the telomeric copy; GeneID 158586 ZXDB is the more centromeric copy. The two genes have 98% nucleotide sequence similarity, and the predicted proteins contain 10 tandem zinc finger motifs. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000198929	 This gene encodes a cytosolic protein that binds to the signaling molecule, neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). This protein has a C-terminal PDZ-binding domain that mediates interactions with nNOS and an N-terminal phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domain that binds to the small monomeric G protein, Dexras1. Studies of the related mouse and rat proteins have shown that this protein functions as an adapter protein linking nNOS to specific targets, such as Dexras1 and the synapsins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000078579	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor family. The fibroblast growth factors possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities, and are involved in a variety of biological processes including embryonic development, cell growth, morphogenesis, tissue repair, tumor growth and invasion. This gene product is a secreted neurotrophic factor but lacks a typical signal peptide. It is expressed in normal brain, particularly the cerebellum, and may regulate central nervous system development and function. Homodimerization of this protein was shown to regulate its receptor binding activity and concentration gradient in the extracellular matrix. Genetic variations of this gene have been associated with Parkinson disease susceptibility. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000050405	 This gene encodes a cytoskeleton-associated protein that inhibits actin filament depolymerization and cross-links filaments in bundles. It is downregulated in some cancer cell lines. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene, and expression of some of the variants maybe independently regulated. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000169604	 This gene encodes a type I transmembrane protein and is a tumor-specific endothelial marker that has been implicated in colorectal cancer. The encoded protein has been shown to also be a docking protein or receptor for Bacillus anthracis toxin, the causative agent of the disease, anthrax. The binding of the protective antigen (PA) component, of the tripartite anthrax toxin, to this receptor protein mediates delivery of toxin components to the cytosol of cells. Once inside the cell, the other two components of anthrax toxin, edema factor (EF) and lethal factor (LF) disrupt normal cellular processes. Three alternatively spliced variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000180767	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfotransferase 2 family. It is localized to the golgi membrane, and catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to the C4 hydroxyl of beta-1,4-linked N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) flanked by glucuronic acid residue in chondroitin. Chondroitin sulfate constitutes the predominant proteoglycan present in cartilage and is distributed on the surfaces of many cells and extracellular matrices. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000148798	 Neurofilaments are type IV intermediate filament heteropolymers composed of light, medium, and heavy chains. Neurofilaments comprise the axoskeleton and they functionally maintain the neuronal caliber. They may also play a role in intracellular transport to axons and dendrites. This gene is a member of the intermediate filament family and is involved in the morphogenesis of neurons. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000075651	 This gene encodes a phosphatidylcholine-specific phospholipase which catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphatidylcholine in order to yield phosphatidic acid and choline. The enzyme may play a role in signal transduction and subcellular trafficking. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants with both catalytic and regulatory properties. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000173908	 This gene encodes a member of the type I (acidic) keratin family, which belongs to the superfamily of intermediate filament (IF) proteins. Keratins are heteropolymeric structural proteins which form the intermediate filament. These filaments, along with actin microfilaments and microtubules, compose the cytoskeleton of epithelial cells. The type I keratin genes are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000171446	 This gene encodes a member of the type I (acidic) keratin family, which belongs to the superfamily of intermediate filament (IF) proteins. Keratins are heteropolymeric structural proteins which form the intermediate filament. These filaments, along with actin microfilaments and microtubules, compose the cytoskeleton of epithelial cells. The type I keratin genes are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000196859	 This gene encodes a member of the type I (acidic) keratin family, which belongs to the superfamily of intermediate filament (IF) proteins. Keratins are heteropolymeric structural proteins which form the intermediate filament. These filaments, along with actin microfilaments and microtubules, compose the cytoskeleton of epithelial cells. The type I keratin genes are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000204897	 This gene encodes a member of the type I (acidic) keratin family, which belongs to the superfamily of intermediate filament (IF) proteins. Keratins are heteropolymeric structural proteins which form the intermediate filament. These filaments, along with actin microfilaments and microtubules, compose the cytoskeleton of epithelial cells. The type I keratin genes are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000167916	 This gene encodes a member of the type I (acidic) keratin family, which belongs to the superfamily of intermediate filament (IF) proteins. Keratins are heteropolymeric structural proteins which form the intermediate filament. These filaments, along with actin microfilaments and microtubules, compose the cytoskeleton of epithelial cells. The type I keratin genes are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000183479	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein with 3' to 5' exonuclease activity. The encoded protein participates in double-stranded DNA break repair, and may interact with DNA polymerase delta. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]. 
ENSG00000181409	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a tyrosine kinase domain at the N-terminus and a proline-rich domain at the C-terminus. This gene is induced during apoptosis, and expression of this gene may be a necessary pre-requisite for the induction of growth arrest and/or apoptosis of myeloid precursor cells. This gene has been shown to produce neuronal differentiation in a neuroblastoma cell line. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000204889	 This gene encodes a member of the type I (acidic) keratin family, which belongs to the superfamily of intermediate filament (IF) proteins. Keratins are heteropolymeric structural proteins which form the intermediate filament. These filaments, along with actin microfilaments and microtubules, compose the cytoskeleton of epithelial cells. The type I keratin genes are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000124334	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine receptor that specifically mediates the biological effects of interleukin 9 (IL9). The functional IL9 receptor complex requires this protein as well as the interleukin 2 receptor, gamma (IL2RG), a common gamma subunit shared by the receptors of many different cytokines. The ligand binding of this receptor leads to the activation of various JAK kinases and STAT proteins, which connect to different biologic responses. This gene is located at the pseudoautosomal regions of X and Y chromosomes. Genetic studies suggested an association of this gene with the development of asthma. Multiple pseudogenes on chromosome 9, 10, 16, and 18 have been described. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133124	 IRS4 encodes the insulin receptor substrate 4, a cytoplasmic protein that contains many potential tyrosine and serine/threonine phosphorylation sites. Tyrosine-phosphorylated IRS4 protein has been shown to associate with cytoplasmic signalling molecules that contain SH2 domains. The IRS4 protein is phosphorylated by the insulin receptor tyrosine kinase upon receptor stimulation.. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198157	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein with similarities to the high mobility group proteins, HMG14 and HMG17, which suggests that this protein may function as a nucleosomal binding and transcriptional activating protein. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000102241	 The protein encoded by this gene functions as a cofactor for the stimulation of transcriptional elongation by HIV-1 Tat, which binds to the HIV-1 promoter through Tat-TAR interaction. This protein may also serve as a dual-function factor to couple transcription and splicing and to facilitate their reciprocal activation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000221838	 This gene encodes a subunit of the heterotetrameric AP-4 complex. The encoded protein belongs to the adaptor complexes medium subunits family. This AP-4 complex is involved in the recognition and sorting of cargo proteins with tyrosine-based motifs from the trans-golgi network to the endosomal-lysosomal system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000071859	 This gene belongs to the FAM50 family. The encoded protein is highly conserved in length and sequence across different species. It is a basic protein containing a nuclear localization signal, and may function as a DNA-binding protein or a transcriptional factor. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000132669	 The RAB5 protein is a small GTPase involved in membrane trafficking in the early endocytic pathway. The protein encoded by this gene binds the GTP-bound form of the RAB5 protein preferentially over the GDP-bound form, and functions as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for RAB5. The encoded protein is found primarily as a tetramer in the cytoplasm and does not bind other members of the RAB family. Mutations in this gene cause macrocephaly alopecia cutis laxa and scoliosis (MACS) syndrome, an elastic tissue disorder, as well as the related connective tissue disorder, RIN2 syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000189037	 This gene encodes a member of the dual specificity phosphatase family, specifically the low molecular weight dual specificity phosphatase family. The encoded protein localizes to both the cytoplasm and the nucleus and functions to remove phosphate groups from phosphotyrosine and phosphothreonine residues.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000122863	 This gene encodes an enzyme which catalyzes the sulfation of chondroitin, a proteoglycan found in the extracellular matrix and most cells which is involved in cell migration and differentiation. Mutations in this gene are associated with spondylepiphyseal dysplasia and humerospinal dysostosis. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000164961	 This gene encodes a 134 kDa protein named strumpellin that is predicted to have multiple transmembrane domains and a spectrin-repeat-containing domain. This ubiquitously expressed gene has its highest expression in skeletal muscle. The protein is named for Strumpell disease; a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP). Spastic paraplegias are a diverse group of disorders in which the autosomal dominant forms are characterized by progressive, lower extremity spasticity caused by axonal degeneration in the terminal portions of the longest descending and ascending corticospinal tracts. More than 30 loci (SPG1-33) have been implicated in hereditary spastic paraplegia diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000148737	 This gene encodes a high mobility group (HMG) box-containing transcription factor that plays a key role in the Wnt signaling pathway. The protein has been implicated in blood glucose homeostasis. Genetic variants of this gene are associated with increased risk of type 2 diabetes. Several transcript variants encoding multiple different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000101444	 S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase belongs to the adenosylhomocysteinase family. It catalyzes the reversible hydrolysis of S-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy) to adenosine (Ado) and L-homocysteine (Hcy). Thus, it regulates the intracellular S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH) concentration thought to be important for transmethylation reactions. Deficiency in this protein is one of the different causes of hypermethioninemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000138326	 Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 40S subunit. The protein belongs to the S24E family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. Mutations in this gene result in Diamond-Blackfan anemia. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000068078	 This gene encodes a member of the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) family, with its amino acid sequence being highly conserved between members and among divergent species. FGFR family members differ from one another in their ligand affinities and tissue distribution. A full-length representative protein would consist of an extracellular region, composed of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning segment and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain. The extracellular portion of the protein interacts with fibroblast growth factors, setting in motion a cascade of downstream signals, ultimately influencing mitogenesis and differentiation. This particular family member binds acidic and basic fibroblast growth hormone and plays a role in bone development and maintenance. Mutations in this gene lead to craniosynostosis and multiple types of skeletal dysplasia. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000143641	 This gene encodes polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 2, a member of the GalNAc-transferases family. This family transfers an N-acetyl galactosamine to the hydroxyl group of a serine or threonine residue in the first step of O-linked oligosaccharide biosynthesis. Individual GalNAc-transferases have distinct activities and initiation of O-glycosylation in a cell is regulated by a repertoire of GalNAc-transferases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114354	 There are several documented fusion oncoproteins encoded partially by this gene. This gene also participates in several oncogenic rearrangements resulting in anaplastic lymphoma and mixoid chondrosarcoma, and may play a role in the NF-kappaB pathway. Multiple transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000144852	 This gene product belongs to the nuclear receptor superfamily, members of which are transcription factors characterized by a ligand-binding domain and a DNA-binding domain. The encoded protein is a transcriptional regulator of the cytochrome P450 gene CYP3A4, binding to the response element of the CYP3A4 promoter as a heterodimer with the 9-cis retinoic acid receptor RXR. It is activated by a range of compounds that induce CYP3A4, including dexamethasone and rifampicin. Several alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms, some of which use non-AUG (CUG) translation initiation codon, have been described for this gene. Additional transcript variants exist, however, they have not been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136003	 Iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters are necessary for several mitochondrial enzymes and other subcellular compartment proteins. They contain sulfur and iron, and are created via several steps that include cysteine desulfurases, iron donors, chaperones, and scaffold proteins. This gene encodes the two isomeric forms, ISCU1 and ISCU2, of the Fe-S cluster scaffold protein. Mutations in this gene have been found in patients with myopathy with severe exercise intolerance and myoglobinuria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196924	 The protein encoded by this gene is an actin-binding protein that crosslinks actin filaments and links actin filaments to membrane glycoproteins. The encoded protein is involved in remodeling the cytoskeleton to effect changes in cell shape and migration. This protein interacts with integrins, transmembrane receptor complexes, and second messengers. Defects in this gene are a cause of several syndromes, including periventricular nodular heterotopias (PVNH1, PVNH4), otopalatodigital syndromes (OPD1, OPD2), frontometaphyseal dysplasia (FMD), Melnick-Needles syndrome (MNS), and X-linked congenital idiopathic intestinal pseudoobstruction (CIIPX). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000145335	 Alpha-synuclein is a member of the synuclein family, which also includes beta- and gamma-synuclein. Synucleins are abundantly expressed in the brain and alpha- and beta-synuclein inhibit phospholipase D2 selectively. SNCA may serve to integrate presynaptic signaling and membrane trafficking. Defects in SNCA have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease. SNCA peptides are a major component of amyloid plaques in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Four alternatively spliced transcripts encoding two different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000107807	 This gene encodes a nuclear transcription factor that belongs to the NK-linked or NK-like (NKL) subfamily of homeobox genes. The encoded protein is required for normal development of the spleen during embryogenesis. This protein is also involved in specification of neuronal cell fates. Ectopic expression of this gene due to chromosomal translocations is associated with certain T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000054983	 This gene encodes a lysosomal protein which hydrolyzes the galactose ester bonds of galactosylceramide, galactosylsphingosine, lactosylceramide, and monogalactosyldiglyceride. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Krabbe disease, also known as globoid cell leukodystrophy. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160973	 FOXH1 encodes a human homolog of Xenopus forkhead activin signal transducer-1. FOXH1 protein binds SMAD2 and activates an activin response element via binding the DNA motif TGT(G/T)(T/G)ATT. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000007314	 Voltage-gated sodium channels are transmembrane glycoprotein complexes composed of a large alpha subunit with 24 transmembrane domains and one or more regulatory beta subunits. They are responsible for the generation and propagation of action potentials in neurons and muscle. This gene encodes one member of the sodium channel alpha subunit gene family. It is expressed in skeletal muscle, and mutations in this gene have been linked to several myotonia and periodic paralysis disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116035	 This gene encodes a homeobox protein and is almost exclusively expressed in the ventral portion of the retina during development. In mouse studies, this gene was found to be required for the correct formation of the optic fissure and other aspects of retinal development. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000125571	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 cytokine family. This cytokine can bind to, and may be a ligand for interleukin 18 receptor (IL18R1/IL-1Rrp). This cytokine also binds to interleukin 18 binding protein (IL18BP), an inhibitory binding protein of interleukin 18 (IL18), and subsequently forms a complex with IL18 receptor beta subunit, and through which it inhibits the activity of IL18. This gene along with eight other interleukin 1 family genes form a cytokine gene cluster on chromosome 2. Five alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000049768	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the forkhead/winged-helix family of transcriptional regulators. Defects in this gene are the cause of immunodeficiency polyendocrinopathy, enteropathy, X-linked syndrome (IPEX), also known as X-linked autoimmunity-immunodeficiency syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000027697	 This gene (IFNGR1) encodes the ligand-binding chain (alpha) of the gamma interferon receptor. Human interferon-gamma receptor is a heterodimer of IFNGR1 and IFNGR2. A genetic variation in IFNGR1 is associated with susceptibility to Helicobacter pylori infection. In addition, defects in IFNGR1 are a cause of mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial disease, also known as familial disseminated atypical mycobacterial infection. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187048	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and hydroxylates medium-chain fatty acids such as laurate and myristate. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000012211	 LIM domain only 6 is a three LIM domain-containing protein.  The LIM domain is a cysteine-rich sequence motif that binds zinc atoms to form a specific protein-binding interface for protein-protein interactions. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136010	 This gene encodes a member of both the aldehyde dehydrogenase superfamily and the formyl transferase superfamily. This member is the mitochondrial form of 10-formyltetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase (FDH), which converts 10-formyltetrahydrofolate to tetrahydrofolate and CO2 in an NADP(+)-dependent reaction, and plays an essential role in the distribution of one-carbon groups between the cytosolic and mitochondrial compartments of the cell. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000123569	 Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Two molecules of each of the four core histones (H2A, H2B, H3, and H4) form an octamer, around which approximately 146 bp of DNA is wrapped in repeating units, called nucleosomes. The linker histone, H1, interacts with linker DNA between nucleosomes and functions in the compaction of chromatin into higher order structures. This gene encodes a member of the H2B histone family that is specifically expressed in sperm nuclei. A polymorphism in the 5' UTR of this gene is associated with male infertility.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000147130	 This gene is located on the X chromosome and is subject to X inactivation. It is highly conserved in vertebrates and most abundantly expressed in the brain. The encoded protein is a component of histone deacetylase-containing multiprotein complexes that function through modifying chromatin structure to keep genes silent. A chromosomal translocation (X;13) involving this gene is associated with X-linked mental retardation. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000147262	 This gene encodes a member of the rhodopsin subfamily of G-protein-coupled receptors that is expressed in the pancreas and gastrointestinal tract. The encoded protein is activated by lipid amides including lysophosphatidylcholine and oleoylethanolamide and may be involved in glucose homeostasis. This protein is a potential drug target in the treatment of type 2 diabetes.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000147852	 The low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene family consists of cell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of specific ligands. This gene encodes a lipoprotein receptor that is a member of the LDLR family and plays important roles in VLDL-triglyceride metabolism and the reelin signaling pathway. Mutations in this gene cause VLDLR-associated cerebellar hypoplasia. Alternative splicing generates multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000165410	 This gene encodes an intracellular protein that is involved in the regulation of actin-filament dynamics. This protein is a major component of intranuclear and cytoplasmic actin rods. It can bind G- and F-actin in a 1:1 ratio of cofilin to actin, and it reversibly controls actin polymerization and depolymerization in a pH-dependent manner. Mutations in this gene cause nemaline myopathy type 7, a form of congenital myopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000185344	 The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the vacuolar ATPase (v-ATPase), an heteromultimeric enzyme that is present in intracellular vesicles and in the plasma membrane of specialized cells, and which is essential for the acidification of diverse cellular components. V-ATPase is comprised of a membrane peripheral V(1) domain for ATP hydrolysis, and an integral membrane V(0) domain for proton translocation. The subunit encoded by this gene is a component of the V(0) domain. Mutations in this gene are a cause of both cutis laxa type II and wrinkly skin syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000215644	 The protein encoded by this gene is a glucagon receptor that is important in controlling blood glucose levels. Defects in this gene are a cause of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM).[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000177045	 The protein encoded by this gene is a homeodomain-containing transcription factor that appears to function in the regulation of organogenesis. This gene is located downstream of the dystrophia myotonica-protein kinase gene. Mutations in this gene are a cause of branchiootorenal syndrome type 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000161618	 This gene encodes a member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase superfamily. The family members act on aldehyde substrates and use nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP) as a cofactor. This gene is conserved in chimpanzee, dog, cow, mouse, rat, and zebrafish. The protein encoded by this gene interacts with maspardin, a protein that when truncated is responsible for Mast syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000113790	 The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme and is one of the four enzymes of the peroxisomal beta-oxidation pathway. The N-terminal region of the encoded protein contains enoyl-CoA hydratase activity while the C-terminal region contains 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. Defects in this gene are a cause of peroxisomal disorders such as Zellweger syndrome. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000164741	 This gene encodes a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) that is a member of the rhoGAP family of proteins which play a role in the regulation of small GTP-binding proteins. GAP family proteins participate in signaling pathways that regulate cell processes involved in cytoskeletal changes. This gene functions as a tumor suppressor gene in a number of common cancers, including prostate, lung, colorectal, and breast cancers. Multiple transcript variants due to alternative promoters and alternative splicing have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000122223	 This gene encodes a cell surface receptor expressed on natural killer (NK) cells (and some T cells) that mediate non-major histocompatibility complex (MHC) restricted killing. The interaction between NK-cell and target cells via this receptor is thought to modulate NK-cell cytolytic activity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000161570	 This gene is one of several CC cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene functions as a chemoattractant for blood monocytes, memory T helper cells and eosinophils. It causes the release of histamine from basophils and activates eosinophils. This cytokine is one of the major HIV-suppressive factors produced by CD8+ cells. It functions as one of the natural ligands for the chemokine receptor CCR5 and it suppresses in vitro replication of the R5 strains of HIV-1, which use CCR5 as a coreceptor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000080819	 The protein encoded by this gene is the sixth enzyme of the heme biosynthetic pathway. The encoded enzyme is soluble and found in the intermembrane space of mitochondria. This enzyme catalyzes the stepwise oxidative decarboxylation of coproporphyrinogen III to protoporphyrinogen IX, a precursor of heme. Defects in this gene are a cause of hereditary coproporphyria (HCP).[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000114349	 Transducin is a 3-subunit guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein) which stimulates the coupling of rhodopsin and cGMP-phoshodiesterase during visual impulses. The transducin alpha subunits in rods and cones are encoded by separate genes. This gene encodes the alpha subunit in rods. This gene is also expressed in other cells, and has been implicated in bitter taste transduction in rat taste cells. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal dominant congenital stationary night blindness. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000160305	 The protein encoded by this gene may be involved in axon patterning in the central nervous system. This gene is not highly expressed. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000119013	 This gene encodes an accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I) which is the first enzyme in the electron transport chain of mitochondria. This protein localizes to the inner membrane of the mitochondrion as a single-pass membrane protein. Mutations in this gene contribute to mitochondrial complex 1 deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. Humans have multiple pseudogenes of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000179163	 The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal enzyme involved in the degradation of fucose-containing glycoproteins and glycolipids. Mutations in this gene are associated with fucosidosis (FUCA1D), which is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease. A pseudogene of this locus is present on chr 2.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000135821	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutamine synthetase family. It catalyzes the synthesis of glutamine from glutamate and ammonia. Glutamine is a main source of energy and is involved in cell proliferation, inhibition of apoptosis, and cell signaling. This gene is expressed during early fetal stages, and plays an important role in controlling body pH by removing ammonia from circulation. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital glutamine deficiency. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000159023	 The protein encoded by this gene, together with spectrin and actin, constitute the red cell membrane cytoskeletal network. This complex plays a critical role in erythrocyte shape and deformability. Mutations in this gene are associated with type 1 elliptocytosis (EL1). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000127870	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a RING-H2 finger motif. Deletions and mutations in this gene were detected in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), suggesting that this protein may be a potential tumor suppressor. Studies of the mouse counterpart suggested a role of this protein in the transcription regulation that controls germinal differentiation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein are observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106688	 This gene encodes a member of the high-affinity glutamate transporters that play an essential role in transporting glutamate across plasma membranes. In brain, these transporters are crucial in terminating the postsynaptic action of the neurotransmitter glutamate, and in maintaining extracellular glutamate concentrations below neurotoxic levels. This transporter also transports aspartate, and mutations in this gene are thought to cause dicarboxylicamino aciduria, also known as glutamate-aspartate transport defect. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000183072	 This gene encodes a homeobox-containing transcription factor. This transcription factor functions in heart formation and development. Mutations in this gene cause atrial septal defect with atrioventricular conduction defect, and also tetralogy of Fallot, which are both heart malformation diseases. Mutations in this gene can also cause congenital hypothyroidism non-goitrous type 5, a non-autoimmune condition. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000187323	 This gene encodes a netrin 1 receptor. The transmembrane protein is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell adhesion molecules, and mediates axon guidance of neuronal growth cones towards sources of netrin 1 ligand. The cytoplasmic tail interacts with the tyrosine kinases Src and focal adhesion kinase (FAK, also known as PTK2) to mediate axon attraction. The protein partially localizes to lipid rafts, and induces apoptosis in the absence of ligand. The protein functions as a tumor suppressor, and is frequently mutated or downregulated in colorectal cancer and esophageal carcinoma. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000134240	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the HMG-CoA synthase family. It is a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the first reaction of ketogenesis, a metabolic pathway that provides lipid-derived energy for various organs during times of carbohydrate deprivation, such as fasting. Mutations in this gene are associated with HMG-CoA synthase deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000089685	 This gene is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) gene family, which encode negative regulatory proteins that prevent apoptotic cell death. IAP family members usually contain multiple baculovirus IAP repeat (BIR) domains, but this gene encodes proteins with only a single BIR domain. The encoded proteins also lack a C-terminus RING finger domain. Gene expression is high during fetal development and in most tumors, yet low in adult tissues. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000259486	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AC004792.1 and AC006115.1. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000083635	 This gene encodes a nuclear RNA binding protein that contains a C2H2 zinc finger motif and a nuclear localization signal. This protein is associated with the nuclear matrix in perichromatin fibrils and, in neurons, localizes to the cytoplasm in association with endoplasmic reticulum ribosomes. This protein interacts with the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), the tumor suppressor protein BRCA1, upregulates RNA polymerase II transcription, and is involved in box C/D snoRNP biogenesis. A pseudogene of this gene resides on chromosome 6q12. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000198881	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ankyrin repeat and SOCS box-containing (ASB) family of proteins. They contain ankyrin repeat sequence and a SOCS box domain. The SOCS box serves to couple suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS) proteins and their binding partners with the elongin B and C complex, possibly targeting them for degradation. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000044446	 Phosphorylase kinase is a polymer of 16 subunits, four each of alpha, beta, gamma and delta. The alpha subunit includes the skeletal muscle and hepatic isoforms, and the hepatic isoform is encoded by this gene. The beta subunit is the same in both the muscle and hepatic isoforms, and encoded by one gene. The gamma subunit also includes the skeletal muscle and hepatic isoforms, which are encoded by two different genes. The delta subunit is a calmodulin and can be encoded by three different genes. The gamma subunits contain the active site of the enzyme, whereas the alpha and beta subunits have regulatory functions controlled by phosphorylation. The delta subunit mediates the dependence of the enzyme on calcium concentration. Mutations in this gene cause glycogen storage disease type 9A, also known as X-linked liver glycogenosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been reported, but the full-length nature of these variants has not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000136854	 This gene encodes a syntaxin-binding protein. The encoded protein appears to play a role in release of neurotransmitters via regulation of syntaxin, a transmembrane attachment protein receptor. Mutations in this gene have been associated with infantile epileptic encephalopathy-4. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000173611	 This gene encodes a regulator of cell migration. The encoded protein appears to function in the RhoA (ras homolog gene family, member A)-Dia1 (diaphanous homolog 1) signal transduction pathway. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000225783	 This gene encodes a non-coding RNA that may constitute a component of the nuclear matrix. Altered expression of this locus has been reported to be associated with a susceptibility to myocardial infarction.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000172548	 This gene likely encodes a membrane receptor. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000042317	 This gene, originally isolated from testis, is also expressed in retina. Mutations in this gene are associated with Leber congenital amaurosis and juvenile retinitis pigmentosa. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000134765	 The protein encoded by this gene is a calcium-dependent glycoprotein that is a member of the desmocollin subfamily of the cadherin superfamily. These desmosomal family members, along with the desmogleins, are found primarily in epithelial cells where they constitute the adhesive proteins of the desmosome cell-cell junction and are required for cell adhesion and desmosome formation. The desmosomal family members are arranged in two clusters on chromosome 18, occupying less than 650 kb combined. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128683	 This gene encodes one of several forms of glutamic acid decarboxylase, identified as a major autoantigen in insulin-dependent diabetes. The enzyme encoded is responsible for catalyzing the production of gamma-aminobutyric acid from L-glutamic acid. A pathogenic role for this enzyme has been identified in the human pancreas since it has been identified as an autoantigen and an autoreactive T cell target in insulin-dependent diabetes. This gene may also play a role in the stiff man syndrome. Deficiency in this enzyme has been shown to lead to pyridoxine dependency with seizures. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two products, the predominant 67-kD form and a less-frequent 25-kD form. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130427	 This gene is a member of the EPO/TPO family and encodes a secreted, glycosylated cytokine composed of four alpha helical bundles. The protein is found in the plasma and regulates red cell production by promoting erythroid differentiation and initiating hemoglobin synthesis. This protein also has neuroprotective activity against a variety of potential brain injuries and antiapoptotic functions in several tissue types. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197976	 This locus encodes a protein kinase A anchoring protein. The encoded protein is part of the spliceosome complex and is involved in the regulation of alternate splicing in some mRNA precursors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000101846	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of sulfated steroid precursors to estrogens during pregnancy. The encoded protein is found in the endoplasmic reticulum, where it acts as a homodimer. Mutations in this gene are known to cause X-linked ichthyosis (XLI). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100983	 Glutathione is important for a variety of biological functions, including protection of cells from oxidative damage by free radicals, detoxification of xenobiotics, and membrane transport. The protein encoded by this gene functions as a homodimer to catalyze the second step of glutathione biosynthesis, which is the ATP-dependent conversion of gamma-L-glutamyl-L-cysteine to glutathione. Defects in this gene are a cause of glutathione synthetase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000087086	 This gene encodes the light subunit of the ferritin protein. Ferritin is the major intracellular iron storage protein in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. It is composed of 24 subunits of the heavy and light ferritin chains. Variation in ferritin subunit composition may affect the rates of iron uptake and release in different tissues. A major function of ferritin is the storage of iron in a soluble and nontoxic state. Defects in this light chain ferritin gene are associated with several neurodegenerative diseases and hyperferritinemia-cataract syndrome. This gene has multiple pseudogenes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165060	 This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial protein which belongs to FRATAXIN family. The protein functions in regulating mitochondrial iron transport and respiration. The expansion of intronic trinucleotide repeat GAA results in Friedreich ataxia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000060642	 This gene encodes a mannosyltransferase enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI). GPI is a complex glycolipid that functions as a membrane anchor for many proteins and plays a role in multiple cellular processes including protein sorting and signal transduction. The encoded protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and transfers the second mannose to the GPI backbone. Mutations in this gene are associated with hyperphosphatasia mental retardation syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000184990	 This gene encodes a protein with an important role in the apoptotic (programmed cell death) pathway induced by the CD27 antigen, a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TFNR) superfamily. The CD27 antigen cytoplasmic tail binds to the N-terminus of this protein. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct proteins have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000003402	 The protein encoded by this gene is a regulator of apoptosis and is structurally similar to caspase-8. However, the encoded protein lacks caspase activity and appears to be itself cleaved into two peptides by caspase-8. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, and partial evidence for several more variants exists. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000099139	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family. The members of this family are proprotein convertases that process latent precursor proteins into their biologically active products. This encoded protein mediates posttranslational endoproteolytic processing for several integrin alpha subunits. It is thought to process prorenin, pro-membrane type-1 matrix metalloproteinase and HIV-1 glycoprotein gp160. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000084093	 This gene encodes a transcriptional repressor that represses neuronal genes in non-neuronal tissues. It is a member of the Kruppel-type zinc finger transcription factor family. It represses transcription by binding a DNA sequence element called the neuron-restrictive silencer element. The protein is also found in undifferentiated neuronal progenitor cells and it is thought that this repressor may act as a master negative regular of neurogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000127241	 This gene encodes a serine protease that functions as a component of the lectin pathway of complement activation. The complement pathway plays an essential role in the innate and adaptive immune response. The encoded protein is synthesized as a zymogen and is activated when it complexes with the pathogen recognition molecules of lectin pathway, the mannose-binding lectin and the ficolins. This protein is not directly involved in complement activation but may play a role as an amplifier of complement activation by cleaving complement C2 or by activating another complement serine protease, MASP-2. The encoded protein is also able to cleave fibrinogen and factor XIII and may may be involved in coagulation. A splice variant of this gene which lacks the serine protease domain functions as an inhibitor of the complement pathway. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000099953	 Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. However, the enzyme encoded by this gene is activated intracellularly by furin within the constitutive secretory pathway. Also in contrast to other MMP's, this enzyme cleaves alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor but weakly degrades structural proteins of the extracellular matrix. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000117122	 Microfibrillar-associated protein 2 is a major antigen of elastin-associated microfibrils and a candidate for involvement in the etiology of inherited connective tissue diseases. Four transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000242372	 Hemidesmosomes are structures which link the basal lamina to the intermediate filament cytoskeleton. An important functional component of hemidesmosomes is the integrin beta-4 subunit (ITGB4), a protein containing two fibronectin type III domains. The protein encoded by this gene binds to the fibronectin type III domains of ITGB4 and may help link ITGB4 to the intermediate filament cytoskeleton. The encoded protein, which is insoluble and found both in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm, can function as a translation initiation factor and prevent the association of the 40S and 60S ribosomal subunits. Multiple non-protein coding transcript variants and variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000105221	 This gene is a putative oncogene encoding a protein belonging to a subfamily of serine/threonine kinases containing SH2-like (Src homology 2-like) domains. The gene was shown to be amplified and overexpressed in 2 of 8 ovarian carcinoma cell lines and 2 of 15 primary ovarian tumors. Overexpression contributes to the malignant phenotype of a subset of human ductal pancreatic cancers. The encoded protein is a general protein kinase capable of phophorylating several known proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000185825	 This gene encodes a member of the B-cell receptor associated protein 31 superfamily. The encoded protein is a multi-pass transmembrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum that is involved in the anterograde transport of membrane proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi and in caspase 8-mediated apoptosis. Microdeletions in this gene are associated with contiguous ABCD1/DXS1375E deletion syndrome (CADDS), a neonatal disorder. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Two related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosome 16. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000143153	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of Na+/K+ and H+/K+ ATPases beta chain proteins, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gradients of Na and K ions across the plasma membrane. These gradients are essential for osmoregulation, for sodium-coupled transport of a variety of organic and inorganic molecules, and for electrical excitability of nerve and muscle. This enzyme is composed of two subunits, a large catalytic subunit (alpha) and a smaller glycoprotein subunit (beta). The beta subunit regulates, through assembly of alpha/beta heterodimers, the number of sodium pumps transported to the plasma membrane. The glycoprotein subunit of Na+/K+ -ATPase is encoded by multiple genes. This gene encodes a beta 1 subunit. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described, but their biological validity is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000164418	 Glutamate receptors are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain and are activated in a variety of normal neurophysiologic processes. This gene product belongs to the kainate family of glutamate receptors, which are composed of four subunits and function as ligand-activated ion channels. The subunit encoded by this gene is subject to RNA editing at multiple sites within the first and second transmembrane domains, which is thought to alter the structure and function of the receptor complex. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have also been described for this gene. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive mental retardation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187486	 Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where they participate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassium channel. The encoded protein, which has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell, is controlled by G-proteins and is found associated with the sulfonylurea receptor SUR. Mutations in this gene are a cause of familial persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy (PHHI), an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by unregulated insulin secretion. Defects in this gene may also contribute to autosomal dominant non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type II (NIDDM), transient neonatal diabetes mellitus type 3 (TNDM3), and permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus (PNDM). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000115286	 This gene encodes a protein that is a subunit of one of the complexes that forms the mitochondrial respiratory chain. This protein is one of over 40 subunits found in complex I, the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH):ubiquinone oxidoreductase. This complex functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain, and ubiquinone is believed to be the immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme. Mutations in this gene cause Leigh syndrome due to mitochondrial complex I deficiency, a severe neurological disorder that results in bilaterally symmetrical necrotic lesions in subcortical brain regions. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134253	 This gene encodes a member of the tripartite motif family. The encoded protein may function as a transcriptional repressor of the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000141503	 This gene encodes a serine/threonine kinase belonging to the germinal center kinase (GCK) family. The protein is structurally similar to the kinases that are related to NIK and may belong to a distinct subfamily of NIK-related kinases within the GCK family. Studies of the mouse homolog indicate an up-regulation of expression in the course of postnatal mouse cerebral development and activation of the cJun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and the p38 pathways. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and four transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000179603	 L-glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and activates both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is involved in most aspects of normal brain function and can be perturbed in many neuropathologic conditions. The metabotropic glutamate receptors are a family of G protein-coupled receptors, that have been divided into 3 groups on the basis of sequence homology, putative signal transduction mechanisms, and pharmacologic properties. Group I includes GRM1 and GRM5 and these receptors have been shown to activate phospholipase C. Group II includes GRM2 and GRM3 while Group III includes GRM4, GRM6, GRM7 and GRM8. Group II and III receptors are linked to the inhibition of the cyclic AMP cascade but differ in their agonist selectivities. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108733	 This gene belongs to the peroxin-12 family. Peroxins (PEXs) are proteins that are essential for the assembly of functional peroxisomes. The peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs) are a group of genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive, lethal diseases characterized by multiple defects in peroxisome function. The peroxisomal biogenesis disorders are a heterogeneous group with at least 14 complementation groups and with more than 1 phenotype being observed in cases falling into particular complementation groups. Although the clinical features of PBD patients vary, cells from all PBD patients exhibit a defect in the import of one or more classes of peroxisomal matrix proteins into the organelle. Defects in this gene are a cause of Zellweger syndrome (ZWS). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000139197	 The product of this gene binds to the C-terminal PTS1-type tripeptide peroxisomal targeting signal (SKL-type) and plays an essential role in peroxisomal protein import. Peroxins (PEXs) are proteins that are essential for the assembly of functional peroxisomes. The peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs) are a group of genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive, lethal diseases characterized by multiple defects in peroxisome function. The peroxisomal biogenesis disorders are a heterogeneous group with at least 14 complementation groups and with more than 1 phenotype being observed in cases falling into particular complementation groups. Although the clinical features of PBD patients vary, cells from all PBD patients exhibit a defect in the import of one or more classes of peroxisomal matrix proteins into the organelle. Defects in this gene are a cause of neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD), a cause of Zellweger syndrome (ZWS) as well as may be a cause of infantile Refsum disease (IRD). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000152492	 This gene encodes a soluble, cytoplasmic, tyrosine-phosphorylated protein with multiple ubiquitin-interacting domains. Mutations in this gene cause nonsyndromic, postlingual, progressive sensorineural DFNA44 hearing loss. In mouse, the protein is expressed in the inner ear during development and postnatal maturation and associates with microtubule-based structures. This protein may also function as a negative regulator of NF-kB signaling and as an effector of epidermal growth factor (EGF)-mediated cell signaling. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000164007	 The product of this gene belongs to the claudin family. It plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity. Defects in this gene are the cause of hypomagnesemia renal with ocular involvement (HOMGO). HOMGO is a progressive renal disease characterized by primary renal magnesium wasting with hypomagnesemia, hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis associated with severe ocular abnormalities such as bilateral chorioretinal scars, macular colobomata, significant myopia and nystagmus. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000090487	 The protein encoded by this gene was identified by a two-hybrid screen using CD4 as the bait. It binds to the hydrophobic C-terminal amino acids of CD4 which are involved in repression of T cell activation. The interaction with CD4 is mediated by the noncatalytic alpha/beta hydrolase fold domain of this protein. It is thus proposed that this gene product modulates the stimulatory activity of CD4. At least three different transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120659	 This gene encodes a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) cytokine family which is a ligand for osteoprotegerin and functions as a key factor for osteoclast differentiation and activation. This protein was shown to be a dentritic cell survival factor and is involved in the regulation of T cell-dependent immune response. T cell activation was reported to induce expression of this gene and lead to an increase of osteoclastogenesis and bone loss. This protein was shown to activate antiapoptotic kinase AKT/PKB through a signaling complex involving SRC kinase and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor (TRAF) 6, which indicated this protein may have a role in the regulation of cell apoptosis. Targeted disruption of the related gene in mice led to severe osteopetrosis and a lack of osteoclasts. The deficient mice exhibited defects in early differentiation of T and B lymphocytes, and failed to form lobulo-alveolar mammary structures during pregnancy. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135316	 This gene encodes a member of the cellular heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) family. hnRNPs are RNA binding proteins that complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA) and regulate alternative splicing, polyadenylation, and other aspects of mRNA metabolism and transport. The encoded protein plays a role in multiple aspects of mRNA maturation and is associated with several multiprotein complexes including the apoB RNA editing-complex and survival of motor neurons (SMN) complex. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 20. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000147100	 This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that functions as a transporter of thyroid hormone. The encoded protein facilitates the cellular importation of thyroxine (T4), triiodothyronine (T3), reverse triiodothyronine (rT3) and diidothyronine (T2). This gene is expressed in many tissues and likely plays an important role in the development of the central nervous system. Loss of function mutations in this gene are associated with psychomotor retardation in males while females exhibit no neurological defects and more moderate thyroid-deficient phenotypes. This gene is subject to X-chromosome inactivation. Mutations in this gene are the cause of Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000122787	 The enzyme encoded by this gene is responsible for the catalysis of the 5-beta-reduction of bile acid intermediates and steroid hormones carrying a delta(4)-3-one structure. Deficiency of this enzyme may contribute to hepatic dysfunction. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Other variants may be present, but their full-length natures have not been determined yet. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000126351	 The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear hormone receptor for triiodothyronine. It is one of the several receptors for thyroid hormone, and has been shown to mediate the biological activities of thyroid hormone. Knockout studies in mice suggest that the different receptors, while having certain extent of redundancy, may mediate different functions of thyroid hormone. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169836	 This gene belongs to a family of genes that function as receptors for tachykinins.  Receptor affinities are specified by variations in the 5'-end of the sequence.  The receptors belonging to this family are characterized by interactions with G proteins and 7 hydrophobic transmembrane regions.  This gene encodes the receptor for the tachykinin neurokinin 3, also referred to as neurokinin B. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000121741	 The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger protein that may act as a transcription factor. The encoded protein may be part of a BHC histone deacetylase complex. Translocation of this gene with the fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 gene (FGFR1) results in a fusion gene, which may be a cause of stem cell leukemia lymphoma syndrome (SCLL). Several transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000162928	 This gene encodes a peroxisomal membrane protein that binds the type 1 peroxisomal targeting signal receptor via a SH3 domain located in the cytoplasm. Mutations and deficiencies in peroxisomal protein importing and peroxisome assembly lead to peroxisomal biogenesis disorders, an example of which is Zellweger syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000138039	 This gene encodes the receptor for both luteinizing hormone and choriogonadotropin. This receptor belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family, and its activity is mediated by G proteins which activate adenylate cyclase. Mutations in this gene result in disorders of male secondary sexual character development, including familial male precocious puberty, also known as testotoxicosis, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, Leydig cell adenoma with precocious puberty, and male pseudohermaphtoditism with Leydig cell hypoplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000243649	 This gene encodes complement factor B, a component of the alternative pathway of complement activation. Factor B circulates in the blood as a single chain polypeptide. Upon activation of the alternative pathway, it is cleaved by complement factor D yielding the noncatalytic chain Ba and the catalytic subunit Bb. The active subunit Bb is a serine protease which associates with C3b to form the alternative pathway C3 convertase. Bb is involved in the proliferation of preactivated B lymphocytes, while Ba inhibits their proliferation. This gene localizes to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class III region on chromosome 6. This cluster includes several genes involved in regulation of the immune reaction. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with a reduced risk of age-related macular degeneration. The polyadenylation site of this gene is 421 bp from the 5' end of the gene for complement component 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164037	 The protein encoded by this gene is a sodium/hydrogen exchanger and transmembrane protein. Highly conserved orthologs of this gene have been found in other mammalian species. The expression of this gene may be limited to testis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000111537	 This gene encodes a member of the type II interferon family. The protein encoded is a soluble cytokine with antiviral, immunoregulatory and anti-tumor properties and is a potent activator of macrophages. Mutations in this gene are associated with aplastic anemia.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000113161	 HMG-CoA reductase is the rate-limiting enzyme for cholesterol synthesis and is regulated via a negative feedback mechanism mediated by sterols and non-sterol metabolites derived from mevalonate, the product of the reaction catalyzed by reductase. Normally in mammalian cells this enzyme is suppressed by cholesterol derived from the internalization and degradation of low density lipoprotein (LDL) via the LDL receptor. Competitive inhibitors of the reductase induce the expression of LDL receptors in the liver, which in turn increases the catabolism of plasma LDL and lowers the plasma concentration of cholesterol, an important determinant of atherosclerosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000161610	 This gene encodes a hypothalamic neuropeptide precursor protein that gives rise to two mature neuropeptides, orexin A and orexin B, by proteolytic processing. Orexin A and orexin B, which bind to orphan G-protein coupled receptors HCRTR1 and HCRTR2, function in the regulation of sleep and arousal. This neuropeptide arrangement may also play a role in feeding behavior, metabolism, and homeostasis. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000137124	 This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenases family of proteins. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the second enzyme of the major oxidative pathway of alcohol metabolism. This gene does not contain introns in the coding sequence. The variation of this locus may affect the development of alcohol-related problems. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102003	 This gene encodes an integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles in brain and endocrine cells. The protein also binds cholesterol and is thought to direct targeting of vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 (synaptobrevin) to intracellular compartments. Mutations in this gene are associated with X-linked mental retardation (XLMR). [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000102265	 This gene belongs to the TIMP gene family. The proteins encoded by this gene family are natural inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), a group of peptidases involved in degradation of the extracellular matrix. In addition to its inhibitory role against most of the known MMPs, the encoded protein is able to promote cell proliferation in a wide range of cell types, and may also have an anti-apoptotic function. Transcription of this gene is highly inducible in response to many cytokines and hormones. In addition, the expression from some but not all inactive X chromosomes suggests that this gene inactivation is polymorphic in human females. This gene is located within intron 6 of the synapsin I gene and is transcribed in the opposite direction. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000156006	 This gene encodes an enzyme that functions to both activate and deactivate arylamine and hydrazine drugs and carcinogens. Polymorphisms in this gene are responsible for the N-acetylation polymorphism in which human populations segregate into rapid, intermediate, and slow acetylator phenotypes. Polymorphisms in this gene are also associated with higher incidences of cancer and drug toxicity. A second arylamine N-acetyltransferase gene (NAT1) is located near this gene (NAT2). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182492	 The protein encoded by this gene is a small cellular or pericellular matrix proteoglycan that is closely related in structure to two other small proteoglycans, decorin and fibromodulin. The encoded protein and decorin are thought to be the result of a gene duplication. Decorin contains one attached glycosaminoglycan chain, while this protein probably contains two chains. For this reason, this protein is called biglycan. This protein plays a role in assembly of collagen fibrils and muscle regeneration. It interacts with several proteins involved in muscular dystrophy, including alpha-dystroglycan, alpha- and gamma-sarcoglycan and collagen VI, and it is critical for the assembly of the dystrophin-associated protein complex. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000000003	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein and is highly similar in sequence to the transmembrane 4 superfamily member 2. The use of alternate polyadenylation sites has been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198759	 This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) repeat superfamily. Members of this superfamily are characterized by the presence of EGF-like repeats and are often involved in the regulation of cell cycle, proliferation, and developmental processes. The gene product contains a signal peptide, suggesting that it is secreted; an EGF repeat region consisting of 4 complete EGF-like repeats and 1 partial EGF-like repeat, 3 of which have a calcium-binding consensus sequence; an arg-gly-asp integrin association motif; and a MAM domain, which is believed to have an adhesive function. This gene is expressed early during development, and its expression has been detected in lung and meningioma tumors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000074771	 This gene encodes a member of the NOX family of NADPH oxidases. These enzymes have the capacity to generate superoxide and other reactive oxygen species (ROS) and transport electrons across the plasma membrane. The ROS generated by family members have been implicated in numerous biological functions including host defense, posttranlational processing of proteins, cellular signaling, regulation of gene expression, and cell differentiation. The protein encoded by this gene is expressed predominantly in the inner ear and is involved in the biogenesis of otoconia/otolith, which are crystalline structures of the inner ear involved in the perception of gravity.[provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000102743	 This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier family. The encoded protein transports ornithine across the inner mitochondrial membrane from the cytosol to the mitochondrial matrix. The protein is an essential component of the urea cycle, and functions in ammonium detoxification and biosynthesis of the amino acid arginine. Mutations in this gene result in hyperornithinemia-hyperammonemia-homocitrullinuria (HHH) syndrome. There is a pseudogene of this locus on the Y chromosome.[provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000165092	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the next enzyme after alcohol dehydrogenase in the major pathway of alcohol metabolism. There are two major aldehyde dehydrogenase isozymes in the liver, cytosolic and mitochondrial, which are encoded by distinct genes, and can be distinguished by their electrophoretic mobility, kinetic properties, and subcellular localization. This gene encodes the cytosolic isozyme. Studies in mice show that through its role in retinol metabolism, this gene may also be involved in the regulation of the metabolic responses to high-fat diet. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000166181	 This gene encodes an apoptosis inhibitory protein whose expression prevents apoptosis after growth factor deprivation. This protein suppresses the transcription factor E2F1-induced apoptosis and also interacts with, and negatively regulates Acinus, a nuclear factor involved in apoptotic DNA fragmentation. Its depletion enhances the cytotoxic action of the chemotherapeutic drugs. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000084112	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the slingshot homolog (SSH) family of phosphatases, which regulate actin filament dynamics. The SSH proteins dephosphorylate and activate the actin binding/depolymerizing factor cofilin, which subsequently binds to actin filaments and stimulates their disassembly. Cofilin is inactivated by kinases such as LIM domain kinase-1 (LIMK1), which may also be dephosphorylated and inactivated by SSH proteins. The SSH family thus appears to play a role in actin dynamics by reactivating cofilin proteins. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000123737	 This gene encodes a component of the human exosome, a exoribonuclease complex which processes and degrades RNA in the nucleus and cytoplasm. This component may play a role in mRNA degradation and the polymyositis/scleroderma autoantigen complex. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000133107	 This gene encodes a member of the canonical subfamily of transient receptor potential cation channels. The encoded protein forms a non-selective calcium-permeable cation channel that is activated by Gq-coupled receptors and tyrosine kinases, and plays a role in multiple processes including endothelial permeability, vasodilation, neurotransmitter release and cell proliferation. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with generalized epilepsy with photosensitivity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000168303	 The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the centrosome during mitosis and to the midbody during cytokinesis. The protein is phosphorylated by cyclin-dependent kinase 1 during mitosis and subsequently interacts with polo-like kinase 1. The protein is thought to function in regulating mitosis and cytokinesis. Mutations in this gene result in nonphotosensitive trichothiodystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000076770	 This gene encodes a member of the muscleblind-like family of proteins. The encoded protein may function in regulation of alternative splicing and may play a role in the pathophysiology of myotonic dystrophy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000120539	 This gene encodes a microtubule-associated serine/threonine kinase. Mutations at this locus have been associated with autosomal dominant thrombocytopenia, also known as thrombocytopenia-2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this locus. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000173894	 This gene encodes a component of the polycomb multiprotein complex, which is required to maintain the transcriptionally repressive state of many genes throughout development via chromatin remodeling and modification of histones. Disruption of this gene in mice results in male-to-female gonadal sex reversal. Mutations in this gene are also associated with gonadal dysgenesis in humans. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000184343	 This gene encodes a protein kinase similar to a protein kinase which is specific for the SR (serine/arginine-rich domain) family of splicing factors. A highly similar protein has been shown to play a role in muscle development in mice. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000078814	 The myosin II molecule is a multi-subunit complex consisting of two heavy chains and four light chains. This gene encodes a heavy chain of myosin II, which is a member of the motor-domain superfamily. The heavy chain includes a globular motor domain, which catalyzes ATP hydrolysis and interacts with actin, and a tail domain in which heptad repeat sequences promote dimerization by interacting to form a rod-like alpha-helical coiled coil. This heavy chain subunit is a slow-twitch myosin. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but the full-length nature of these variants is not determined. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000104299	 This gene encodes a subunit of the Integrator complex. This protein complex binds the C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II and likely plays a role in small nuclear RNA processing. The encoded protein has similarities to the subunits of the cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor complex. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000170289	 This gene encodes the beta subunit of a cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channel. The encoded beta subunit appears to play a role in modulation of channel function in cone photoreceptors. This heterotetrameric channel is necessary for sensory transduction, and mutations in this gene have been associated with achromatopsia 3, progressive cone dystrophy, and juvenile macular degeneration, also known as Stargardt Disease. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000155961	 This gene encodes a member of the Rab family of proteins. Rab proteins are small GTPases that are involved in vesicular trafficking. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165192	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ankyrin repeat and SOCS box-containing (ASB) family of proteins. They contain ankyrin repeat sequence and SOCS box domain. The SOCS box serves to couple suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS) proteins and their binding partners with the elongin B and C complex, possibly targeting them for degradation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000107815	 This gene encodes a hexameric DNA helicase which unwinds short stretches of double-stranded DNA in the 5' to 3' direction and, along with mitochondrial single-stranded DNA binding protein and mtDNA polymerase gamma, is thought to play a key role in mtDNA replication. The protein localizes to the mitochondrial matrix and mitochondrial nucleoids. Mutations in this gene cause infantile onset spinocerebellar ataxia (IOSCA) and progressive external ophthalmoplegia (PEO) and are also associated with several mitochondrial depletion syndromes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000174010	 This gene encodes a member of the kelch-like family of proteins that share a common domain structure consisting of an N-terminal broad-complex, tramtrack, bric-a-brac/poxvirus and zinc finger domain and C-terminal kelch repeat motifs. The encoded protein may be involved in protein ubiquitination and cytoskeletal organization. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000103460	 The protein encoded by this gene contains an HMG-box, indicating that it may be involved in bending and unwinding of DNA and alteration of chromatin structure. The C-terminus of the encoded protein is glutamine-rich due to CAG repeats in the coding sequence. A minor allele of this gene has been implicated in an elevated risk of breast cancer. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000182132	 This gene encodes a member of the family of voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channel-interacting proteins (KCNIPs), which belong to the recoverin branch of the EF-hand superfamily. Members of the KCNIP family are small calcium binding proteins. They all have EF-hand-like domains, and differ from each other in the N-terminus. They are integral subunit components of native Kv4 channel complexes. They may regulate A-type currents, and hence neuronal excitability, in response to changes in intracellular calcium. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variant encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109063	 Myosin is a major contractile protein which converts chemical energy into mechanical energy through the hydrolysis of ATP. Myosin is a hexameric protein composed of a pair of myosin heavy chains (MYH) and two pairs of nonidentical light chains. This gene is a member of the MYH family and encodes a protein with an IQ domain and a myosin head-like domain. Mutations in this gene have been associated with two congenital contracture (arthrogryposis) syndromes, Freeman-Sheldon syndrome and Sheldon-Hall syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000037280	 This gene encodes a tyrosine kinase receptor for vascular endothelial growth factors C and D. The protein is thought to be involved in lymphangiogenesis and maintenance of the lymphatic endothelium. Mutations in this gene cause hereditary lymphedema type IA. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140009	 This gene encodes a member of the family of estrogen receptors and superfamily of nuclear receptor transcription factors. The gene product contains an N-terminal DNA binding domain and C-terminal ligand binding domain and is localized to the nucleus, cytoplasm, and mitochondria. Upon binding to 17beta-estradiol or related ligands, the encoded protein forms homo- or hetero-dimers that interact with specific DNA sequences to activate transcription. Some isoforms dominantly inhibit the activity of other estrogen receptor family members. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164347	 Eukaryotes contain two protein translational systems, one in the cytoplasm and one in the mitochondria. Mitochondrial translation is crucial for maintaining mitochondrial function and mutations in this system lead to a breakdown in the respiratory chain-oxidative phosphorylation system and to impaired maintenance of mitochondrial DNA. This gene encodes one of mitochondrial translation elongation factors. Its role in the regulation of normal mitochondrial function and in different disease states attributed to mitochondrial dysfunction is not known. Alternative splicing results in at least three transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000139631	 This gene encodes a member of the group 2 decarboxylase family. A similar protein in rodents plays a role in multiple biological processes as the rate-limiting enzyme in taurine biosynthesis, catalyzing the decarboxylation of cysteinesulfinate to hypotaurine. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000137709	 This gene encodes a member of the POU domain family of transcription factors. POU domain transcription factors bind to a specific octamer DNA motif and regulate cell type-specific differentiation pathways. The encoded protein is primarily expressed in the epidermis, and plays a critical role in keratinocyte proliferation and differentiation. The encoded protein is also a candidate tumor suppressor protein, and aberrant promoter methylation of this gene may play a role in cervical cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000162236	 This gene encodes a member of the syntaxin or t-SNARE (target-SNAP receptor) family. These proteins are found on cell membranes and serve as the targets for v-SNAREs (vesicle-SNAP receptors), permitting specific synaptic vesicle docking and fusion. The encoded protein regulates endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi transport and plays a critical role in autophagy. Autoantibodies targeting the encoded protein may be a diagnostic marker for endometriosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000108001	 This gene encodes a member of the early B-cell factor (EBF) family of DNA binding transcription factors. EBF proteins are involved in B-cell differentiation, bone development and neurogenesis, and may also function as tumor suppressors. The encoded protein inhibits cell survival through the regulation of genes involved in cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, and aberrant methylation or deletion of this gene may play a role in multiple malignancies including glioblastoma multiforme and gastric carcinoma. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000187790	 The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2). The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementation group M. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170989	 The protein encoded by this gene is structurally similar to G protein-coupled receptors and is highly expressed in endothelial cells. It binds the ligand sphingosine-1-phosphate with high affinity and high specificity, and suggested to be involved in the processes that regulate the differentiation of endothelial cells. Activation of this receptor induces cell-cell adhesion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168056	 The protein encoded by this gene forms a complex with transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) proteins and may be involved in their subcellular localization. Activation of this complex requires removal of the encoded binding protein. This protein also may play a structural role in the extracellular matrix. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000165671	 This gene encodes a protein containing a SET domain, 2 LXXLL motifs, 3 nuclear translocation signals (NLSs), 4 plant homeodomain (PHD) finger regions, and a proline-rich region. The encoded protein enhances androgen receptor (AR) transactivation, and this enhancement can be increased further in the presence of other androgen receptor associated coregulators. This protein may act as a nucleus-localized, basic transcriptional factor and also as a bifunctional transcriptional regulator. Mutations of this gene have been associated with Sotos syndrome and Weaver syndrome. One version of childhood acute myeloid leukemia is the result of a cryptic translocation with the breakpoints occurring within nuclear receptor-binding Su-var, enhancer of zeste, and trithorax domain protein 1 on chromosome 5 and nucleoporin, 98-kd on chromosome 11. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171298	 This gene encodes acid alpha-glucosidase, which is essential for the degradation of glycogen to glucose in lysosomes. Different forms of acid alpha-glucosidase are obtained by proteolytic processing. Defects in this gene are the cause of glycogen storage disease II, also known as Pompe's disease, which is an autosomal recessive disorder with a broad clinical spectrum. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000006606	 This gene is one of two Cys-Cys (CC) cytokine genes clustered on the q arm of chromosome 7. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene displays chemotactic activity for normal peripheral blood eosinophils and basophils. The product of this gene is one of three related chemokines that specifically activate chemokine receptor CCR3. This chemokine may contribute to the eosinophil accumulation in atopic diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100122	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Beta-crystallins, the most heterogeneous, differ by the presence of the C-terminal extension (present in the basic group, none in the acidic group). Beta-crystallins form aggregates of different sizes and are able to self-associate to form dimers or to form heterodimers with other beta-crystallins. This gene, a beta basic group member, undergoes extensive cleavage at its N-terminal extension during lens maturation. It is also a member of a gene cluster with beta-A4, beta-B2, and beta-B3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100053	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Beta-crystallins, the most heterogeneous, differ by the presence of the C-terminal extension (present in the basic group, none in the acidic group). Beta-crystallins form aggregates of different sizes and are able to self-associate to form dimers or to form heterodimers with other beta-crystallins. This gene, a beta basic group member, is part of a gene cluster with beta-A4, beta-B1, and beta-B2. Mutations in this gene result in cataract congenital nuclear autosomal recessive type 2. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000135409	 This gene encodes the receptor for the anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH) which, in addition to testosterone, results in male sex differentiation. AMH and testosterone are produced in the testes by different cells and have different effects. Testosterone promotes the development of male genitalia while the binding of AMH to the encoded receptor prevents the development of the mullerian ducts into uterus and Fallopian tubes. Mutations in this gene are associated with persistent Mullerian duct syndrome type II. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000145020	 This gene encodes one of four critical components of the glycine cleavage system. Mutations in this gene have been associated with glycine encephalopathy. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000163297	 This gene encodes a receptor for anthrax toxin. The protein binds to collagen IV and laminin, suggesting that it may be involved in extracellular matrix adhesion. Mutations in this gene cause juvenile hyaline fibromatosis and infantile systemic hyalinosis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000179348	 This gene encodes a member of the GATA family of zinc-finger transcription factors that are named for the consensus nucleotide sequence they bind in the promoter regions of target genes. The encoded protein plays an essential role in regulating transcription of genes involved in the development and proliferation of hematopoietic and endocrine cell lineages. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000123545	 NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) catalyzes the transfer of electrons from NADH to ubiquinone (coenzyme Q) in the first step of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, resulting in the translocation of protons across the inner mitochondrial membrane. This gene encodes a complex I assembly factor. Mutations in this gene are a cause of mitochondrial complex I deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000132763	 The exact function of the protein encoded by this gene is not known, however, its C-terminal region shows similarity to TonB, a bacterial protein involved in energy transduction for cobalamin (vitamin B12) uptake. Hence, it is postulated that this protein may have a role in the binding and intracellular trafficking of cobalamin. Mutations in this gene are associated with methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria type cblC. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000185737	 This gene is a member of the neuregulin gene family. This gene family encodes ligands for the transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptors ERBB3 and ERBB4 - members of the epidermal growth factor receptor family. Ligand binding activates intracellular signaling cascades and the induction of cellular responses including proliferation, migration, differentiation, and survival or apoptosis. This gene encodes neuregulin 3 (NRG3). NRG3 has been shown to activate the tyrosine phosphorylation of its cognate receptor, ERBB4, and is thought to influence neuroblast proliferation, migration and differentiation by signalling through ERBB4. NRG3 also promotes mammary differentiation during embryogenesis. Linkage studies have implicated this gene as a susceptibility locus for schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional transcript variants have been described but their biological validity has not been verified.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000111640	 The product of this gene catalyzes an important energy-yielding step in carbohydrate metabolism, the reversible oxidative phosphorylation of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate in the presence of inorganic phosphate and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD). The enzyme exists as a tetramer of identical chains. Many pseudogenes similar to this locus are present in the human genome. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000006016	 This gene encodes a member of the cytokine type I receptor family. The protein forms a secreted complex with cardiotrophin-like cytokine factor 1 and acts on cells expressing ciliary neurotrophic factor receptors. The complex can promote survival of neuronal cells. Mutations in this gene result in Crisponi syndrome and cold-induced sweating syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000175505	 This gene is a member of the glycoprotein (gp)130 cytokine family and encodes cardiotrophin-like cytokine factor 1 (CLCF1). CLCF1 forms a heterodimer complex with cytokine receptor-like factor 1 (CRLF1). This dimer competes with ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) for binding to the ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor (CNTFR) complex, and activates the Jak-STAT signaling cascade. CLCF1 can be actively secreted from cells by forming a complex with soluble type I CRLF1 or soluble CNTFR. CLCF1 is a potent neurotrophic factor, B-cell stimulatory agent and neuroendocrine modulator of pituitary corticotroph function. Defects in CLCF1 cause cold-induced sweating syndrome 2 (CISS2). This syndrome is characterized by a profuse sweating after exposure to cold as well as congenital physical abnormalities of the head and spine. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000129116	 This gene encodes a cytoskeletal protein that is required for organizing the actin cytoskeleton. The protein is a component of actin-containing microfilaments, and it is involved in the control of cell shape, adhesion, and contraction. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with a susceptibility to pancreatic cancer type 1, and also with a risk for myocardial infarction. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000164715	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the protein kinase superfamily and the protein tyrosine kinase family. It contains N-terminal transmembrane helices and a long C-terminal cytoplasmic tail with serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. This protein interacts with several other proteins, such as Inhibitor-2 (Inh2), protein phosphatase-1 (PP1C), p35, and myosin VI. It phosporylates other proteins, and is itself also phosporylated when interacting with cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5)/p35 complex. This protein involves in nerve growth factor (NGF)-TrkA signalling, and also plays a critical role in endosomal membrane trafficking. Mouse studies suggested an essential role of this protein in spermatogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000032444	 This gene encodes a phospholipase that deacetylates intracellular phosphatidylcholine to produce glycerophosphocholine. It is thought to function in neurite outgrowth and process elongation during neuronal differentiation. The protein is anchored to the cytoplasmic face of the endoplasmic reticulum in both neurons and non-neuronal cells. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia, and the protein is the target for neurodegeneration induced by organophosphorus compounds and chemical warfare agents. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000133424	 This gene, which is one of the largest in the human genome, encodes a member of the N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase gene family. It encodes a glycosyltransferase which participates in glycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan, and may carry out the synthesis of glycoprotein and glycosphingolipid sugar chains. It may also be involved in the addition of a repeated disaccharide unit. Mutations in this gene cause MDC1D, a novel form of congenital muscular dystrophy with severe mental retardation and abnormal glycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000133818	 This gene encodes a member of the R-Ras subfamily of Ras-like small GTPases. The encoded protein associates with the plasma membrane and may function as a signal transducer. This protein may play an important role in activating signal transduction pathways that control cell proliferation. Mutations in this gene are associated with the growth of certain tumors. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 1 and 2. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000242185	 This gene represents one of a cluster of six similar genes located on the q arm of chromosome X. The genes in this cluster encode members of the cancer/testis (CT) family of antigens, and are distinct from other CT antigens. These antigens are thought to be novel therapeutic targets for human cancers. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000101882	 This gene encodes a protein that is involved in the activation of the ubiquitous transcription factor NF-kappaB. This protein is associated with the the histone deacetylase HDAC3 and with the Notch corepressor complex, and it thereby acts as a transcriptional repressor of Notch target genes. It is also required for alphabeta T cell development. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome X, while a related and intronless retrocopy, which has an intact CDS and may be functional, is located on chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000198354	 This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by Gly-His and Trp-Asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multi-protein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. This gene appears to represent an intronless retrocopy of a related multi-exon gene located on chromosome 9. However, the CDS of this intronless gene remains intact, it is conserved in other mammalian species, it is known to be transcribed, and it is therefore thought to encode a functional protein. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000197779	 This gene encodes a protein that likely functions as a transcription factor. The protein contains an N-terminal KRAB domain and several C2H2-type zinc finger motifs. Mutations in this gene cause mental retardation X-linked type 45 (MRX45). [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000147127	 This gene encodes a small GTP-binding protein that belongs to the largest family within the Ras superfamily. These proteins function as regulators of membrane trafficking. They cycle between inactive GDP-bound and activated GTP-bound states, which is controlled by GTP hydrolysis-activating proteins (GAPs). This family member can be activated by the GAP protein RN-Tre, and it is localized to the Golgi complex. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000196208	 This gene is an estrogen-responsive gene that is an early response gene in the estrogen receptor-regulated pathway. It is thought to play an important role in hormone-responsive tissues and cancer. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000088682	 This locus represents a mitochondrial ubiquinone biosynthesis gene. The encoded protein is likely necessary for biosynthesis of coenzyme Q10, as mutations at this locus have been associated with autosomal-recessive neonatal-onset primary coenzyme Q10 deficiency.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000166949	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SMAD, a family of proteins similar to the gene products of the Drosophila gene 'mothers against decapentaplegic' (Mad) and the C. elegans gene Sma. SMAD proteins are signal transducers and transcriptional modulators that mediate multiple signaling pathways. This protein functions as a transcriptional modulator activated by transforming growth factor-beta and is thought to play a role in the regulation of carcinogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000120262	 The function of this gene and its encoded protein is not known. Several genome-wide association studies have implicated the region around this gene to be involved in breast cancer and bone mineral density, but no link to this specific gene has been found. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000188828	 This gene encodes a protein which has a neurotransmitter-gated ion-channel ligand binding domain. The encoded protein is very similar to a mouse protein which is a subunit of the retinal glycine receptor. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000187796	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the CARD protein family, which is defined by the presence of a characteristic caspase-associated recruitment domain (CARD). CARD is a protein interaction domain known to participate in activation or suppression of CARD containing members of the caspase family, and thus plays an important regulatory role in cell apoptosis. This protein was identified by its selective association with the CARD domain of BCL10, a postive regulator of apoptosis and NF-kappaB activation, and is thought to function as a molecular scaffold for the assembly of a BCL10 signaling complex that activates NF-kappaB. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed, but their full-length nature is not clearly defined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000090376	 This gene encodes a member of the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase protein family. Members of this family are essential components of the Toll/IL-R immune signal transduction pathways. This protein is primarily expressed in monocytes and macrophages and functions as a negative regulator of Toll-like receptor signaling. Mutations in this gene are associated with a susceptibility to asthma. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000145996	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the methylthiotransferase family. The function of this gene is not known. Genome-wide association studies have linked single nucleotide polymorphisms in an intron of this gene with susceptibilty to type 2 diabetes. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000147255	 This gene encodes a member of the immunoglobulin-like domain-containing superfamily. Proteins in this superfamily contain varying numbers of immunoglobulin-like domains and are thought to participate in the regulation of interactions between cells. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000017483	 The protein encoded by this gene is a system N sodium-coupled amino acid transporter involved in the transfer of glutamine, asparagine, histidine, serine, alanine, and glycine. The encoded protein does not transport charged amino acids, imino acids, or N-alkylated amino acids. This transporter is not inhibited by lithium.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000177283	 This intronless gene is a member of the frizzled gene family. Members of this family encode seven-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for the Wingless type MMTV integration site family of signaling proteins. Most frizzled receptors are coupled to the beta-catenin canonical signaling pathway. This gene is highly expressed in two human cancer cell lines, indicating that it may play a role in several types of cancer. The crystal structure of the extracellular cysteine-rich domain of a similar mouse protein has been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196502	 Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of many hormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolic enzymes are different in their tissue distributions and substrate specificities. The gene structure (number and length of exons) is similar among family members. This gene encodes one of two phenol sulfotransferases with thermostable enzyme activity.  Multiple alternatively spliced variants that encode two isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000034971	 MYOC encodes the protein myocilin, which is believed to have a role in cytoskeletal function. MYOC is expressed in many occular tissues, including the trabecular meshwork, and was revealed to be the trabecular meshwork glucocorticoid-inducible response protein (TIGR). The trabecular meshwork is a specialized eye tissue essential in regulating intraocular pressure, and mutations in MYOC have been identified as the cause of hereditary juvenile-onset open-angle glaucoma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124275	 Methionine is an essential amino acid required for protein synthesis and one-carbon metabolism. Its synthesis is catalyzed by the enzyme methionine synthase. Methionine synthase eventually becomes inactive due to the oxidation of its cob(I)alamin cofactor. The protein encoded by this gene regenerates a functional methionine synthase via reductive methylation. It is a member of the ferredoxin-NADP(+) reductase (FNR) family of electron transferases. Patients of the cbl-E complementation group of disorders of folate/cobalamin metabolism are defective in reductive activation of methionine synthase. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000139131	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that catalyzes the attachment of tyrosine to tRNA(Tyr). Mutations in this gene are associated with myopathy with lactic acidosis and sideroblastic anemia type 2 (MLASA2). [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000175445	 LPL encodes lipoprotein lipase, which is expressed in heart, muscle, and adipose tissue. LPL functions as a homodimer, and has the dual functions of triglyceride hydrolase and ligand/bridging factor for receptor-mediated lipoprotein uptake. Severe mutations that cause LPL deficiency result in type I hyperlipoproteinemia, while less extreme mutations in LPL are linked to many disorders of lipoprotein metabolism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167775	 This gene encodes the transcobalamin receptor that is expressed at the cell surface. It mediates the cellular uptake of transcobalamin bound cobalamin (vitamin B12), and is involved in B-cell proliferation and immunoglobulin secretion. Mutations in this gene are associated with methylmalonic aciduria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000170264	 This gene belongs to the FAM161 family. It is expressed mainly in the retina. Mouse studies suggested that this gene is involved in development of retinal progenitors during embryogenesis, and that its activity is restricted to mature photoreceptors after birth. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa-28. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000137563	 This gene catalyzes the hydrolysis of folylpoly-gamma-glutamates and antifolylpoly-gamma-glutamates by the removal of gamma-linked polyglutamates and glutamate. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102575	 This gene encodes an iron containing glycoprotein which catalyzes the conversion of orthophosphoric monoester to alcohol and orthophosphate. It is the most basic of the acid phosphatases and is the only form not inhibited by L(+)-tartrate. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000167995	 This gene encodes a member of the bestrophin gene family. This small gene family is characterized by proteins with a highly conserved N-terminus with four to six transmembrane domains. Bestrophins may form chloride ion channels or may regulate voltage-gated L-type calcium-ion channels. Bestrophins are generally believed to form calcium-activated chloride-ion channels in epithelial cells but they have also been shown to be highly permeable to bicarbonate ion transport in retinal tissue. Mutations in this gene are responsible for juvenile-onset vitelliform macular dystrophy (VMD2), also known as Best macular dystrophy, in addition to adult-onset vitelliform macular dystrophy (AVMD) and other retinopathies. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000186654	 This gene encodes a protein with a proline-rich domain. This gene is located in a region of chromosome 22 reported to contain a tumor suppressor gene that may be involved in breast and colorectal tumorigenesis. The protein is a component of the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 2 (mTORC2), and it regulates platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) receptor beta expression and PDGF signaling to Akt and S6K1. Alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters results in transcripts encoding different isoforms. Read-through transcripts from this gene into the downstream Rho GTPase activating protein 8 (ARHGAP8) gene also exist, which led to the original description of PRR5 and ARHGAP8 being a single gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000100342	 This gene encodes a secreted high density lipoprotein which binds to apolipoprotein A-I. Apolipoprotein A-I is a relatively abundant plasma protein and is the major apoprotein of HDL. It is involved in the formation of most cholesteryl esters in plasma and also promotes efflux of cholesterol from cells. This apolipoprotein L family member may play a role in lipid exchange and transport throughout the body, as well as in reverse cholesterol transport from peripheral cells to the liver. Several different transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000128335	 This gene is a member of the apolipoprotein L gene family. The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm, where it may affect the movement of lipids or allow the binding of lipids to organelles. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166813	 This gene encodes a cilia-associated protein belonging to the kinesin family. This protein plays a role in the sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling pathway through the regulation of GLI transcription factors. It functions as a negative regulator of the SHH pathway by preventing inappropriate activation of GLI2 in the absence of ligand, and as a positive regulator by preventing the processing of GLI3 into its repressor form. Mutations in this gene have been associated with various ciliopathies. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000129071	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of nuclear proteins related by the presence of a methyl-CpG binding domain (MBD). These proteins are capable of binding specifically to methylated DNA, and some members can also repress transcription from methylated gene promoters. This protein contains an MBD domain at the N-terminus that functions both in binding to methylated DNA and in protein interactions and a C-terminal mismatch-specific glycosylase domain that is involved in DNA repair. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000171552	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family. BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. The proteins encoded by this gene are located at the outer mitochondrial membrane, and have been shown to regulate outer mitochondrial membrane channel (VDAC) opening. VDAC regulates mitochondrial membrane potential, and thus controls the production of reactive oxygen species and release of cytochrome C by mitochondria, both of which are the potent inducers of cell apoptosis. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode distinct isoforms, have been reported. The longer isoform acts as an apoptotic inhibitor and the shorter form acts as an apoptotic activator. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166068	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Sprouty family of proteins and is phosphorylated by tyrosine kinase in response to several growth factors. The encoded protein can act as a homodimer or as a heterodimer with SPRED2 to regulate activation of the MAP kinase cascade. Defects in this gene are a cause of neurofibromatosis type 1-like syndrome (NFLS). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124570	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serpin (serine proteinase inhibitor) superfamily, and ovalbumin(ov)-serpin subfamily. It was originally discovered as a placental thrombin inhibitor. The mouse homolog was found to be expressed in the hair cells of the inner ear. Mutations in this gene are associated with nonsyndromic progressive hearing loss, suggesting that this serpin plays an important role in the inner ear in the protection against leakage of lysosomal content during stress, and that loss of this protection results in cell death and sensorineural hearing loss. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000197375	 Polyspecific organic cation transporters in the liver, kidney, intestine, and other organs are critical for elimination of many endogenous small organic cations as well as a wide array of drugs and environmental toxins. The encoded protein is a plasma integral membrane protein which functions both as an organic cation transporter and as a sodium-dependent high affinity carnitine transporter. The encoded protein is involved in the active cellular uptake of carnitine. Mutations in this gene are the cause of systemic primary carnitine deficiency (CDSP), an autosomal recessive disorder manifested early in life by hypoketotic hypoglycemia and acute metabolic decompensation, and later in life by skeletal myopathy or cardiomyopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000158578	 The product of this gene specifies an erythroid-specific mitochondrially located enzyme. The encoded protein catalyzes the first step in the heme biosynthetic pathway. Defects in this gene cause X-linked pyridoxine-responsive sideroblastic anemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000118246	 This gene encodes a protein that is localized in the mitochondrial inner compartment and that may play a role in mitochondrial apoptosis. Nonsense mutations have been reported to result in cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000104763	 This gene encodes a heterodimeric protein consisting of a nonglycosylated alpha subunit and a glycosylated beta subunit that is cleaved to the mature enzyme posttranslationally. The encoded protein catalyzes the synthesis and degradation of ceramide into sphingosine and fatty acid. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a lysosomal storage disorder known as Farber disease. Multiple transcript variants encoding several distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123453	 This gene encodes an enzyme localized to the mitochondrial matrix which catalyzes the oxidative demethylation of sarcosine. This enzyme is distinct from another mitochondrial matrix enzyme, dimethylglycine dehydrogenase, which catalyzes a reaction resulting in the formation of sarcosine. Mutations in this gene are associated with sarcosinemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000152592	 Dentin matrix acidic phosphoprotein is an extracellular matrix protein and a member of the small integrin binding ligand N-linked glycoprotein family. This protein, which is critical for proper mineralization of bone and dentin, is present in diverse cells of bone and tooth tissues. The protein contains a large number of acidic domains, multiple phosphorylation sites, a functional arg-gly-asp cell attachment sequence, and a DNA binding domain. In undifferentiated osteoblasts it is primarily a nuclear protein that regulates the expression of osteoblast-specific genes. During osteoblast maturation the protein becomes phosphorylated and is exported to the extracellular matrix, where it orchestrates mineralized matrix formation. Mutations in the gene are known to cause autosomal recessive hypophosphatemia, a disease that manifests as rickets and osteomalacia. The gene structure is conserved in mammals. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000087245	 Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. This gene encodes an enzyme which degrades type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes. The enzyme plays a role in endometrial menstrual breakdown, regulation of vascularization and the inflammatory response. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Winchester syndrome and Nodulosis-Arthropathy-Osteolysis (NAO) syndrome. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000034693	 The product of this gene is involved in peroxisome biosynthesis and integrity. It assembles membrane vesicles before the matrix proteins are translocated. Peroxins (PEXs) are proteins that are essential for the assembly of functional peroxisomes. The peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs) are a group of genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive, lethal diseases characterized by multiple defects in peroxisome function. The peroxisomal biogenesis disorders are a heterogeneous group with at least 14 complementation groups and with more than 1 phenotype being observed in cases falling into particular complementation groups. Although the clinical features of PBD patients vary, cells from all PBD patients exhibit a defect in the import of one or more classes of peroxisomal matrix proteins into the organelle. Defects in this gene are a cause Zellweger syndrome (ZWS). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000139287	 This gene encodes a member of the pterin-dependent aromatic acid hydroxylase family. The encoded protein catalyzes the first and rate limiting step in the biosynthesis of serotonin, an important hormone and neurotransmitter. The human genome contains two related tryptophan hydroxylases, one on chromosome 11p15-p14 and one on chromosome 12q21. This gene is expressed predominantly in the brain stem. Mutations in this gene may be associated with psychiatric diseases such as bipolar affective disorder and major depression. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163930	 The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the nucleus and it interacts with the RING finger domain of the breast cancer 1, early onset protein (BRCA1). This gene is thought to be a tumor suppressor gene that functions in the BRCA1 growth control pathway. There are multiple polyadenylation sites found in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119899	 This gene encodes a membrane transporter that exports free sialic acids that have been cleaved off of cell surface lipids and proteins from lysosomes. Mutations in this gene cause sialic acid storage diseases, including infantile sialic acid storage disorder and and Salla disease, an adult form. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000150086	 N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are a class of ionotropic glutamate receptors. NMDA receptor channel has been shown to be involved in long-term potentiation, an activity-dependent increase in the efficiency of synaptic transmission thought to underlie certain kinds of memory and learning. NMDA receptor channels are heteromers composed of three different subunits: NR1 (GRIN1), NR2 (GRIN2A, GRIN2B, GRIN2C, or GRIN2D) and NR3 (GRIN3A or GRIN3B). The NR2 subunit acts as the agonist binding site for glutamate. This receptor is the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptor in the mammalian brain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116288	 The product of this gene belongs to the peptidase C56 family of proteins. It acts as a positive regulator of androgen receptor-dependent transcription. It may also function as a redox-sensitive chaperone, as a sensor for oxidative stress, and it apparently protects neurons against oxidative stress and cell death. Defects in this gene are the cause of autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson disease 7. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125454	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that is a member of the solute carrier family. Although this protein was initially thought to be the mitochondrial deoxynucleotide carrier involved in the uptake of deoxynucleotides into the matrix of the mitochondria, further studies have demonstrated that this protein instead functions as the mitochondrial thiamine pyrophosphate carrier, which transports thiamine pyrophosphates into mitochondria. Mutations in this gene cause microcephaly, Amish type, a metabolic disease that results in severe congenital microcephaly, severe 2-ketoglutaric aciduria, and death within the first year. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000009954	 This gene encodes a member of the bromodomain protein family. The bromodomain is a structural motif characteristic of proteins involved in chromatin-dependent regulation of transcription. This gene is deleted in Williams-Beuren syndrome, a developmental disorder caused by deletion of multiple genes at 7q11.23. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131747	 This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and alters the topologic states of DNA during transcription. This nuclear enzyme is involved in processes such as chromosome condensation, chromatid separation, and the relief of torsional stress that occurs during DNA transcription and replication. It catalyzes the transient breaking and rejoining of two strands of duplex DNA which allows the strands to pass through one another, thus altering the topology of DNA. Two forms of this enzyme exist as likely products of a gene duplication event. The gene encoding this form, alpha, is localized to chromosome 17 and the beta gene is localized to chromosome 3. The gene encoding this enzyme functions as the target for several anticancer agents and a variety of mutations in this gene have been associated with the development of drug resistance. Reduced activity of this enzyme may also play a role in ataxia-telangiectasia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000123268	 This gene encodes an activating transcription factor, which belongs to the ATF subfamily and bZIP (basic-region leucine zipper) family. It influences cellular physiologic processes by regulating the expression of downstream target genes, which are related to growth, survival, and other cellular activities. This protein is phosphorylated at serine 63 in its kinase-inducible domain by serine/threonine kinases, cAMP-dependent protein kinase A, calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I/II, mitogen- and stress-activated protein kinase and cyclin-dependent kinase 3 (cdk-3). Its phosphorylation enhances its transactivation and transcriptional activities, and enhances cell transformation. Fusion of this gene and FUS on chromosome 16 or EWSR1 on chromosome 22 induced by translocation generates chimeric proteins in angiomatoid fibrous histiocytoma and clear cell sarcoma. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000175197	 This gene encodes a member of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) family of transcription factors. The protein functions as a dominant-negative inhibitor by forming heterodimers with other C/EBP members, such as C/EBP and LAP (liver activator protein), and preventing their DNA binding activity. The protein is implicated in adipogenesis and erythropoiesis, is activated by endoplasmic reticulum stress, and promotes apoptosis. Fusion of this gene and FUS on chromosome 16 or EWSR1 on chromosome 22 induced by translocation generates chimeric proteins in myxoid liposarcomas or Ewing sarcoma. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding two isoforms with different length have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000163754	 This gene encodes a member of the glycogenin family. Glycogenin is a glycosyltransferase that catalyzes the formation of a short glucose polymer from uridine diphosphate glucose in an autoglucosylation reaction. This reaction is followed by elongation and branching of the polymer, catalyzed by glycogen synthase and branching enzyme, to form glycogen. This gene is expressed in muscle and other tissues. Mutations in this gene result in glycogen storage disease XV. This gene has pseudogenes on chromosomes 1, 8 and 13 respectively. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000127837	 The gene product is an immunoglobulin-type protein. It is found to be expressed strongly in endothelial cells, cytotrophoblasts, and poorly differentiated colon adenocarcinoma cells found in lymphatics. The protein contains a heparin-binding domain and mediates heparin-sensitive cell adhesion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140718	 This gene is a nuclear protein of the AlkB related non-haem iron and 2-oxoglutarate-dependent oxygenase superfamily but the exact physiological function of this gene is not known. Other non-heme iron enzymes function to reverse alkylated DNA and RNA damage by oxidative demethylation. Studies in mice and humans indicate a role in nervous and cardiovascular systems and a strong association with body mass index, obesity risk, and type 2 diabetes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000164610	 The protein encoded by this gene can be bound and phosphorylated by the protooncogene PIM1 product, a serine/threonine protein kinase . This protein localizes in nuclear speckles containing the splicing factors, and has a role in pre-mRNA splicing. CBF1-interacting protein (CIR), a corepressor of CBF1, can also bind to this protein and effects alternative splicing. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa-9. This gene has a pseudogene (GeneID: 441212), which is located in tandem array approximately 166 kb distal to this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000139174	 This gene encodes a nuclear receptor that may be a negative regulator of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. The encoded protein localizes to the nuclear membrane and has been implicated in the nuclear trafficking of the transcription repressors REST/NRSF and REST4. Mutations in this gene have been linked to progressive myoclonus epilepsy. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 3. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000170458	 The protein encoded by this gene is a surface antigen that is preferentially expressed on monocytes/macrophages. It cooperates with other proteins to mediate the innate immune response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000221994	 This gene encodes a zinc finger protein with an N-terminal Kruppel-associated box-containing (KRAB) domain and 13 Kruppel-type C2H2 zinc finger domains. Like other zinc finger proteins, this gene may function as a transcription factor. This gene resides on an area of chromosome X that has been implicated in nonsyndromic X-linked mental retardation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000066279	 This gene is the human ortholog of the Drosophila melanogaster 'abnormal spindle' gene (asp), which is essential for normal mitotic spindle function in embryonic neuroblasts. Studies in mouse also suggest a role of this gene in mitotic spindle regulation, with a preferential role in regulating neurogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with microcephaly primary type 5. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000116497	 This gene encodes a protein that was originally identified by its interaction with S100 calcium-binding protein P. Expression of this protein has been reported to be associated with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000167941	 Sclerostin is a secreted glycoprotein with a C-terminal cysteine knot-like (CTCK) domain and sequence similarity to the DAN (differential screening-selected gene aberrative in neuroblastoma) family of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) antagonists. Loss-of-function mutations in this gene are associated with an autosomal-recessive disorder, sclerosteosis, which causes progressive bone overgrowth. A deletion downstream of this gene, which causes reduced sclerostin expression, is associated with a milder form of the disorder called van Buchem disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124164	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type IV membrane protein found in plasma and intracellular vesicle membranes. The encoded protein is found as a homodimer and as a heterodimer with VAPA. This protein also can interact with VAMP1 and VAMP2 and may be involved in vesicle trafficking. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187017	 This gene encodes a multifunctional actin-bundling protein. It plays a major role in regulating the organization, dimensions, dynamics, and signaling capacities of the actin filament-rich, microvillus-type specializations that mediate sensory transduction in various mechanosensory and chemosensory cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive neurosensory deafness, and autosomal dominant sensorineural deafness without vestibular involvement. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000046653	 This gene encodes a membrane glycoprotein that belongs to the proteolipid protein family. Proteolipid protein family members are expressed in most brain regions and are thought to be involved in cellular housekeeping functions, such as membrane trafficking and cell-to-cell communication. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000244682	 This gene encodes one of three members of a family of low-affinity immunoglobulin gamma Fc receptors found on the surface of many immune response cells. The encoded protein is a transmembrane glycoprotein and may be involved in phagocytosis and clearing of immune complexes. An allelic polymorphism in this gene results in both coding and non-coding variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000165197	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the platelet-derived growth factor/vascular endothelial growth factor (PDGF/VEGF) family and is active in angiogenesis, lymphangiogenesis, and endothelial cell growth. This secreted protein undergoes a complex proteolytic maturation, generating multiple processed forms which bind and activate VEGFR-2 and VEGFR-3 receptors. This protein is structurally and functionally similar to vascular endothelial growth factor C. Read-through transcription has been observed between this locus and the upstream PIR (GeneID 8544) locus. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000208506	 The small nuclear RNA (snRNA) encoded by this gene is part of the U12-dependent minor spliceosome complex. In addition to the encoded RNA, this ribonucleoprotein complex consists of U11, U12, U5, and U6atac snRNAs. The U12-dependent spliceosome acts on approximately 700 specific introns in the human genome. Defects in this gene are a cause of microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type 1 (MOPD). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000007350	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transketolase that acts as a homodimer and catalyzes the conversion of sedoheptulose 7-phosphate and D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate to D-ribose 5-phosphate and D-xylulose 5-phosphate. This reaction links the pentose phosphate pathway with the glycolytic pathway. Variations in this gene may be the cause of Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000153815	 This gene encodes a c-Maf inducing protein that plays a role in T-cell signaling pathway. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000102119	 Emerin is a serine-rich nuclear membrane protein and a member of the nuclear lamina-associated protein family. It mediates membrane anchorage to the cytoskeleton. Dreifuss-Emery muscular dystrophy is an X-linked inherited degenerative myopathy resulting from mutation in the emerin gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110245	 Apolipoprotein C-III is a very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) protein.  APOC3 inhibits lipoprotein lipase and hepatic lipase; it is thought to delay catabolism of triglyceride-rich particles.  The APOA1, APOC3 and APOA4 genes are closely linked in both rat and human genomes.  The A-I and A-IV genes are transcribed from the same strand, while the A-1 and C-III genes are convergently transcribed.  An increase in apoC-III levels induces the development of hypertriglyceridemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104112	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the chromogranin/secretogranin family of neuroendocrine secretory proteins. Granins may serve as precursors for biologically active peptides. Some granins have been shown to function as helper proteins in sorting and proteolytic processing of prohormones; however, the function of this protein is unknown. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000167711	 This gene encodes a member of the serpin family of serine protease inhibitors. The protein is a major inhibitor of plasmin, which degrades fibrin and various other proteins. Consequently, the proper function of this gene has a major role in regulating the blood clotting pathway. Mutations in this gene result in alpha-2-plasmin inhibitor deficiency, which is characterized by severe hemorrhagic diathesis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000140274	 This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum protein that is necessary for proper cellular localization and maturation of functional dual oxidase 2. Mutations in this gene have been associated with thyroid dyshormonogenesis 5.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000156709	 This gene encodes a flavoprotein essential for nuclear disassembly in apoptotic cells, and it is found in the mitochondrial intermembrane space in healthy cells. Induction of apoptosis results in the translocation of this protein to the nucleus where it affects chromosome condensation and fragmentation. In addition, this gene product induces mitochondria to release the apoptogenic proteins cytochrome c and caspase-9. Mutations in this gene cause combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 6, which results in a severe mitochondrial encephalomyopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 10. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000166432	 This gene encodes a protein containing Cys2-His2 (C2H2)-type zinc fingers, which are similar to those found in the nuclear matrix protein matrin 3. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000171195	 This gene encodes a small salivary mucin, which is thought to play a role in facilitating the clearance of bacteria in the oral cavity and to aid in mastication, speech, and swallowing. The central domain of this glycoprotein contains tandem repeats, each composed of 23 amino acids. The most common allele contains 6 repeats, and some alleles may be associated with susceptibility to asthma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants with different 5' UTR, but encoding the same protein, have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000130675	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein, which contains a homeobox domain and is a transcription factor. Mutations in this gene result in Currarino syndrome, an autosomic dominant congenital malformation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000099377	 This gene encodes an enzyme which is involved in the initial stages of the synthesis of bile acids from cholesterol and a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase superfamily. The encoded protein is a membrane-associated endoplasmic reticulum protein which is active against 7-alpha hydrosylated sterol substrates. Mutations in this gene are associated with a congenital bile acid synthesis defect which leads to neonatal cholestasis, a form of progressive liver disease. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000078061	 This proto-oncogene belongs to the RAF subfamily of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family, and maybe involved in cell growth and development. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000135424	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the integrin alpha chain family. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain. They mediate a wide spectrum of cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, and thus play a role in cell migration, morphologic development, differentiation, and metastasis. This protein functions as a receptor for the basement membrane protein laminin-1. It is mainly expressed in skeletal and cardiac muscles and may be involved in differentiation and migration processes during myogenesis. Defects in this gene are associated with congenital myopathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000131069	 This gene encodes a cytosolic enzyme that catalyzes the activation of acetate for use in lipid synthesis and energy generation. The protein acts as a monomer and produces acetyl-CoA from acetate in a reaction that requires ATP. Expression of this gene is regulated by sterol regulatory element-binding proteins, transcription factors that activate genes required for the synthesis of cholesterol and unsaturated fatty acids. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000154743	 This gene encodes one of the subunits of the tRNA splicing endonuclease. This endonuclease catalyzes the first step in RNA splicing which is the removal of introns. Mutations in this gene have been associated with pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 2. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 4. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000163283	 There are at least four distinct but related alkaline phosphatases: intestinal, placental, placental-like, and liver/bone/kidney (tissue non-specific). The first three are located together on chromosome 2 while the tissue non-specific form is located on chromosome 1. The product of this gene is a membrane bound glycosylated enzyme, also referred to as the heat stable form, that is expressed primarily in the placenta although it is closely related to the intestinal form of the enzyme as well as to the placental-like form. The coding sequence for this form of alkaline phosphatase is unique in that the 3' untranslated region contains multiple copies of an Alu family repeat. In addition, this gene is polymorphic and three common alleles (type 1, type 2 and type 3) for this form of alkaline phosphatase have been well characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000150455	 The innate immune system recognizes microbial pathogens through Toll-like receptors (TLRs), which identify pathogen-associated molecular patterns. Different TLRs recognize different pathogen-associated molecular patterns and all TLRs have a Toll-interleukin 1 receptor (TIR) domain, which is responsible for signal transduction. The protein encoded by this gene is a TIR adaptor protein involved in the TLR4 signaling pathway of the immune system. It activates NF-kappa-B, MAPK1, MAPK3 and JNK, which then results in cytokine secretion and the inflammatory response. Alternative splicing of this gene results in several transcript variants; however, not all variants have been fully described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112530	 This gene encodes a protein that is conserved across metazoans. In vertebrates, this gene is linked in a head-to-head arrangement with the adjacent parkin gene, which is associated with autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinson's disease. These genes are co-regulated in various tissues and they share a bi-directional promoter. Both genes are associated with susceptibility to leprosy. The parkin co-regulated gene protein forms a large molecular complex with chaperones, including heat shock proteins 70 and 90, and chaperonin components. This protein is also a component of Lewy bodies in Parkinson's disease patients, and it suppresses unfolded Pael receptor-induced neuronal cell death. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000093010	 Catechol-O-methyltransferase catalyzes the transfer of a methyl group from S-adenosylmethionine to catecholamines, including the neurotransmitters dopamine, epinephrine, and norepinephrine. This O-methylation results in one of the major degradative pathways of the catecholamine transmitters. In addition to its role in the metabolism of endogenous substances, COMT is important in the metabolism of catechol drugs used in the treatment of hypertension, asthma, and Parkinson disease. COMT is found in two forms in tissues, a soluble form (S-COMT) and a membrane-bound form (MB-COMT). The differences between S-COMT and MB-COMT reside within the N-termini. Several transcript variants are formed through the use of alternative translation initiation sites and promoters. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000065361	 This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) family of receptor tyrosine kinases. This membrane-bound protein has a neuregulin binding domain but not an active kinase domain. It therefore can bind this ligand but not convey the signal into the cell through protein phosphorylation. However, it does form heterodimers with other EGF receptor family members which do have kinase activity. Heterodimerization leads to the activation of pathways which lead to cell proliferation or differentiation. Amplification of this gene and/or overexpression of its protein have been reported in numerous cancers, including prostate, bladder, and breast tumors. Alternate transcriptional splice variants encoding different isoforms have been characterized. One isoform lacks the intermembrane region and is secreted outside the cell. This form acts to modulate the activity of the membrane-bound form. Additional splice variants have also been reported, but they have not been thoroughly characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168263	 Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. This gene encodes a member of the potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily V. This member is identified as a 'silent subunit', and it does not form homomultimers, but forms heteromultimers with several other subfamily members. Through obligatory heteromerization, it exerts a function-altering effect on other potassium channel subunits. This protein is strongly expressed in pancreas and has a weaker expression in several other tissues. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120885	 The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted chaperone that can under some stress conditions also be found in the cell cytosol. It has been suggested to be involved in several basic biological events such as cell death, tumor progression, and neurodegenerative disorders. Alternate splicing results in both coding and non-coding variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000043591	 The adrenergic receptors (subtypes alpha 1, alpha 2, beta 1, and beta 2) are a prototypic family of guanine nucleotide binding regulatory protein-coupled receptors that mediate the physiological effects of the hormone epinephrine and the neurotransmitter norepinephrine. Specific polymorphisms in this gene have been shown to affect the resting heart rate and can be involved in heart failure. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204311	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the gasdermin family, a family which is found only in vertebrates. The encoded protein is required for the proper function of auditory pathway neurons. Defects in this gene are a cause of non-syndromic sensorineural deafness autosomal recessive type 59 (DFNB59). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000187258	 This gene is a member of the G protein-coupled receptor 1 family and encodes a plasma membrane protein. Increased expression of this gene in ciliated cells of the respiratory epithelium and in bronchial smooth muscle cells is associated with asthma. Mutations in this gene have also been associated with this disease. Alternatively spliced variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described; however, not all variants have been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000141349	 This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase). G6Pase is located in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and catalyzes the hydrolysis of glucose-6-phosphate to glucose and phosphate in the last step of the gluconeogenic and glycogenolytic pathways. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal recessive severe congenital neutropenia. Multiple transcript variants have been found for this gene, only one of which is expected to express a protein.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000168329	 Fractalkine is a transmembrane protein and chemokine involved in the adhesion and migration of leukocytes. The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for fractalkine. The encoded protein also is a coreceptor for HIV-1, and some variations in this gene lead to increased susceptibility to HIV-1 infection and rapid progression to AIDS. Four transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000138078	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the prolyl oligopeptidase subfamily of serine peptidases. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hypotonia-cystinuria syndrome, also known as the 2p21 deletion syndrome. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding either the same or different isoforms have been described for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000176076	 Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. This gene encodes a membrane protein which has sequence similarity to the KCNE1 gene product, a member of the potassium channel, voltage-gated, isk-related subfamily. This intronless gene is deleted in AMME contiguous gene syndrome and may be involved in the cardiac and neurologic abnormalities found in the AMME contiguous gene syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169252	 This gene encodes beta-2-adrenergic receptor which is a member of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. This receptor is directly associated with one of its ultimate effectors, the class C L-type calcium channel Ca(V)1.2. This receptor-channel complex also contains a G protein, an adenylyl cyclase, cAMP-dependent kinase, and the counterbalancing phosphatase, PP2A. The assembly of the signaling complex provides a mechanism that ensures specific and rapid signaling by this G protein-coupled receptor. This gene is intronless. Different polymorphic forms, point mutations, and/or downregulation of this gene are associated with nocturnal asthma, obesity and type 2 diabetes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187240	 This gene encodes a large cytoplasmic dynein protein that is involved in retrograde transport in the cilium and has a role in intraflagellar transport, a process required for ciliary/flagellar assembly. Mutations in this gene cause a heterogeneous spectrum of conditions related to altered primary cilium function and often involve polydactyly, abnormal skeletogenesis, and polycystic kidneys. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000172071	 The protein encoded by this gene phosphorylates the alpha subunit of eukaryotic translation-initiation factor 2 (EIF2), leading to its inactivation, and thus to a rapid reduction of translational initiation and repression of global protein synthesis. It is a type I membrane protein located in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), where it is induced by ER stress caused by malfolded proteins. Mutations in this gene are associated with Wolcott-Rallison syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000143252	 This gene encodes one of four nuclear-encoded subunits that comprise succinate dehydrogenase, also known as mitochondrial complex II, a key enzyme complex of the tricarboxylic acid cycle and aerobic respiratory chains of mitochondria. The encoded protein is one of two integral membrane proteins that anchor other subunits of the complex, which form the catalytic core, to the inner mitochondrial membrane. Several related pseudogenes are located in different genomic regions. Mutations in this gene have been associated with paragangliomas. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170423	 This gene is a member of the type II keratin gene family and encodes a protein with an intermediate filament domain. Keratins are the major structural proteins in epithelial cells, forming a cytoplasmic network of 10 to 12 nm wide intermediate filaments and creating a scaffold that gives cells the ability to withstand mechanical and non-mechanical stresses. The genes of the type II keratin family are located as a gene cluster at 12p13.13. Four pseudogenes of this gene family have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138759	 This gene encodes an extracellular matrix protein that appears to function in the regulation of epidermal-basement membrane adhesion and organogenesis during development. Mutations in this gene cause Fraser syndrome, a multisystem malformation that can include craniofacial, urogenital and respiratory system abnormalities. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000110435	 The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is located in the mitochondrial matrix and catalyzes the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl coenzyme A. The PDH complex thereby links glycolysis to Krebs cycle. The PDH complex contains three catalytic subunits, E1, E2, and E3, two regulatory subunits, E1 kinase and E1 phosphatase, and a non-catalytic subunit, E3 binding protein (E3BP). This gene encodes the E3 binding protein subunit; also known as component X of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. This protein tethers E3 dimers to the E2 core of the PDH complex. Defects in this gene are a cause of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency which results in neurological dysfunction and lactic acidosis in infancy and early childhood. This protein is also a minor antigen for antimitochondrial antibodies. These autoantibodies are present in nearly 95% of patients with the autoimmune liver disease primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). In PBC, activated T lymphocytes attack and destroy epithelial cells in the bile duct where this protein is abnormally distributed and overexpressed. PBC eventually leads to cirrhosis and liver failure. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000117425	 This gene encodes a transmembrane receptor of the patched gene family. The encoded protein may function as a tumor suppressor in the hedgehog signaling pathway. Alterations in this gene have been associated with nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome, basal cell carcinoma, medulloblastoma, and susceptibility to congenital macrostomia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000105329	 This gene encodes a member of the transforming growth factor beta (TGFB) family of cytokines, which are multifunctional peptides that regulate proliferation, differentiation, adhesion, migration, and other functions in many cell types. Many cells have TGFB receptors, and the protein positively and negatively regulates many other growth factors. The secreted protein is cleaved into a latency-associated peptide (LAP) and a mature TGFB1 peptide, and is found in either a latent form composed of a TGFB1 homodimer, a LAP homodimer, and a latent TGFB1-binding protein, or in an active form composed of a TGFB1 homodimer. The mature peptide may also form heterodimers with other TGFB family members. This gene is frequently upregulated in tumor cells, and mutations in this gene result in Camurati-Engelmann disease.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000136352	 This gene encodes a protein initially identified as a thyroid-specific transcription factor. The encoded protein binds to the thyroglobulin promoter and regulates the expression of thyroid-specific genes but has also been shown to regulate the expression of genes involved in morphogenesis. Mutations and deletions in this gene are associated with benign hereditary chorea, choreoathetosis, congenital hypothyroidism, and neonatal respiratory distress, and may be associated with thyroid cancer. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. This gene shares the symbol/alias 'TFF1' with another gene, transcription termination factor 1, which plays a role in ribosomal gene transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000106089	 This gene encodes a member of the syntaxin superfamily. Syntaxins are nervous system-specific proteins implicated in the docking of synaptic vesicles with the presynaptic plasma membrane. Syntaxins possess a single C-terminal transmembrane domain, a SNARE [Soluble NSF (N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein)-Attachment protein REceptor] domain (known as H3), and an N-terminal regulatory domain (Habc). Syntaxins bind synaptotagmin in a calcium-dependent fashion and interact with voltage dependent calcium and potassium channels via the C-terminal H3 domain. This gene product is a key molecule in ion channel regulation and synaptic exocytosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000092607	 This gene belongs to the T-box family of genes, which encode a phylogenetically conserved family of transcription factors that regulate a variety of developmental processes. All these genes contain a common T-box DNA-binding domain. Mutations in this gene are associated with Cousin syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000006638	 This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family. The protein interacts with thromboxane A2 to induce platelet aggregation and regulate hemostasis. A mutation in this gene results in a bleeding disorder. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000177646	 This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family. Members of this family of proteins localize to the mitochondria and catalyze the rate-limiting step in the beta-oxidation of fatty acyl-CoA. The encoded protein is specifically active toward palmitoyl-CoA and long-chain unsaturated substrates. Mutations in this gene cause acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family member type 9 deficiency. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000166169	 This gene encodes a DNA polymerase. DNA polymerases catalyze DNA-template-directed extension of the 3'-end of a DNA strand. This particular polymerase, which is a member of the X family of DNA polymerases, likely plays a role in non-homologous end joining and other DNA repair processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000198130	 This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for hydrolysis of both HIBYL-CoA and beta-hydroxypropionyl-CoA. Mutations in this gene have been associated with 3-hyroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000048545	 This gene plays a role in the recovery of retinal photoreceptors from photobleaching. In the recovery phase, the phototransduction messeneger cGMP is replenished by retinal guanylyl cyclase-1 (GC1). GC1 is activated by decreasing Ca(2+) concentrations following photobleaching. The protein encoded by this gene, guanylyl cyclase activating protein 1 (GCAP1), mediates the sensitivity of GC1 to Ca(2+) concentrations. GCAP1 promotes activity of GC1 at low Ca(2+) concentrations and inhibits GC1 activity at high Ca(2+) concentrations. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant cone dystrophy (COD3); a disease characterized by reduced visual acuity associated with progressive loss of color vision. Mutations in this gene prohibit the inactivation of RetGC1 at high Ca(2+) concentrations; causing the constitutive activation of RetGC1 and, presumably, increased cell death. This gene is expressed in retina and spermatagonia. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000115155	 Mutations in this gene are a cause of neurosensory nonsyndromic recessive deafness, DFNB9. The short form of the encoded protein has 3 C2 domains, a single carboxy-terminal transmembrane domain found also in the C. elegans spermatogenesis factor FER-1 and human dysferlin, while the long form has 6 C2 domains. The homology suggests that this protein may be involved in vesicle membrane fusion. Several transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000092201	 Transcription of protein-coding genes can be reconstituted on naked DNA with only the general transcription factors and RNA polymerase II. However, this minimal system cannot transcribe DNA packaged into chromatin, indicating that accessory factors may facilitate access to DNA. One such factor, FACT (facilitates chromatin transcription), interacts specifically with histones H2A/H2B to effect nucleosome disassembly and transcription elongation. FACT is composed of an 80 kDa subunit and a 140 kDa subunit; this gene encodes the 140 kDa subunit. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000005513	 This gene encodes a member of the SOX (SRY-related HMG-box) family of transcription factors involved in the regulation of embryonic development and in the determination of the cell fate. The encoded protein may act as a transcriptional activator after forming a protein complex with other proteins. This protein may be involved in brain development and function. Haploinsufficiency for this protein may contribute to the mental retardation found in haemoglobin H-related mental retardation (ART-16 syndrome). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197859	 This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) and ADAMTS-like protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The protein encoded by this gene lacks the protease domain, and is therefore of a member of the the ADAMTS-like protein subfamily. It is a secreted glycoprotein that binds the cell surface and extracellular matrix; it also interacts with latent transforming growth factor beta binding protein 1. Mutations in this gene have been associated with geleophysic dysplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000156920	 This gene encodes a G-protein coupled receptor belonging to a large family of diverse integral membrane proteins that participate in various physiological functions. Members of this superfamily are characterized by a signature 7-transmembrane domain motif. The ligand for this family member is unknown, and it is therefore an orphan receptor. This receptor is known to be expressed in normal enterochromaffin cells and in gastrointestinal neuroendocrine carcinoma cells, and it is therefore considered to be a novel biomarker or target for immunotherapy. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000111252	 This gene encodes a member of the SH2B adaptor family of proteins, which are involved in a range of signaling activities by growth factor and cytokine receptors. The encoded protein is a key negative regulator of cytokine signaling and plays a critical role in hematopoiesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with susceptibility to celiac disease type 13 and susceptibility to insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000256061	 This gene encodes a tetratricopeptide repeat domain-containing protein. The encoded protein interacts with estrogen receptors and the heat shock proteins, Hsp70 and Hsp90. An homologous protein in rat has been shown to function in neuronal migration in the developing neocortex. A chromosomal translocation involving this gene is associated with a susceptibility to developmental dyslexia. Mutations in this gene are associated with deficits in reading and spelling. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the downstream cell cycle progression 1 (CCPG1) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000132906	 This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This protein is processed by caspase APAF1; this step is thought to be one of the earliest in the caspase activation cascade. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants which encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000082212	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial NAD-dependent malic enzyme, a homotetrameric protein, that catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of malate to pyruvate. It had previously been weakly linked to a syndrome known as Friedreich ataxia that has since been shown to be the result of mutation in a completely different gene. Certain single-nucleotide polymorphism haplotypes of this gene have been shown to increase the risk for idiopathic generalized epilepsy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000152556	 Three phosphofructokinase isozymes exist in humans: muscle, liver and platelet. These isozymes function as subunits of the mammalian tetramer phosphofructokinase, which catalyzes the phosphorylation of fructose-6-phosphate to fructose-1,6-bisphosphate. Tetramer composition varies depending on tissue type. This gene encodes the muscle-type isozyme. Mutations in this gene have been associated with glycogen storage disease type VII, also known as Tarui disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000174720	 This gene encodes a protein which is found in the 7SK snRNP (small nuclear ribonucleoprotein). This snRNP complex inhibits a cyclin-dependent kinase, positive transcription elongation factor b, which is required for paused RNA polymerase II at a promoter to begin transcription elongation. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000143631	 The protein encoded by this gene is an intermediate filament-associated protein that aggregates keratin intermediate filaments in mammalian epidermis. It is initially synthesized as a polyprotein precursor, profilaggrin (consisting of multiple filaggrin units of 324 aa each), which is localized in keratohyalin granules, and is subsequently proteolytically processed into individual functional filaggrin molecules. Mutations in this gene are associated with ichthyosis vulgaris.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000160282	 The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that channels 1-carbon units from formiminoglutamate, a metabolite of the histidine degradation pathway, to the folate pool. Mutations in this gene are associated with glutamate formiminotransferase deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000186790	 This intronless gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors, which is characterized by a distinct forkhead domain. The protein encoded functions as a lens-specific transcription factor and plays an important role in vertebrate lens formation. Mutations in this gene are associated with anterior segment mesenchymal dysgenesis and congenital primary aphakia. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000197603	 The protein encoded by this gene has putative coiled-coil domains and may be a transmembrane protein. Defects in this gene are a cause of Joubert syndrome (JBTS). [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000078401	 The protein encoded by this gene is proteolytically processed to release a secreted peptide termed endothelin 1. This peptide is a potent vasoconstrictor and is produced by vascular endothelial cells. Endothelin 1 also can affect the central nervous system. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000169919	 This gene encodes a hydrolase that degrades glycosaminoglycans, including heparan sulfate, dermatan sulfate, and chondroitin-4,6-sulfate. The enzyme forms a homotetramer that is localized to the lysosome. Mutations in this gene result in mucopolysaccharidosis type VII. There are many pseudogenes of this locus in the human genome.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000122859	 The protein encoded by this gene is a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor involved in neurogenesis. The encoded protein likely acts as a heterodimer with another bHLH protein. Defects in this gene are a cause of congenital malabsorptive diarrhea 4 (DIAR4).[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000189299	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL159987.19. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000186675	 This gene encodes a member of the E subfamily of MAGE (melanoma antigen-encoding gene) gene family. The gene is intronless and the encoded protein has two of the MAGE domains which are characteristic of MAGE family proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000031081	 This gene encodes a GTPase-activating protein (GAP). A variety of cellular processes are regulated by Rho GTPases which cycle between an inactive form bound to GDP and an active form bound to GTP. This cycling between inactive and active forms is regulated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors and GAPs. The encoded protein is a GAP shown to regulate two GTPases involved in protein trafficking and cell growth. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123560	 This gene encodes a transmembrane proteolipid protein that is the predominant myelin protein present in the central nervous system. It may play a role in the compaction, stabilization, and maintenance of myelin sheaths, as well as in oligodendrocyte development and axonal survival. Mutations in this gene cause X-linked Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease and spastic paraplegia type 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms or having different 5' UTRs, have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102144	 The protein encoded by this gene is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate to 3-phosphoglycerate. The encoded protein may also act as a cofactor for polymerase alpha. This gene lies on the X-chromosome, while a related pseudogene also has been found on the X-chromosome and another on chromosome 19. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000065154	 This gene encodes the mitochondrial enzyme ornithine aminotransferase, which is a key enzyme in the pathway that converts arginine and ornithine into the major excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters glutamate and GABA. Mutations that result in a deficiency of this enzyme cause the autosomal recessive eye disease Gyrate Atrophy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. Related pseudogenes have been defined on the X chromosome. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000117528	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal import of fatty acids and/or fatty acyl-CoAs in the organelle. All known peroxisomal ABC transporters are half transporters which require a partner half transporter molecule to form a functional homodimeric or heterodimeric transporter. This peroxisomal membrane protein likely plays an important role in peroxisome biogenesis. Mutations have been associated with some forms of Zellweger syndrome, a heterogeneous group of peroxisome assembly disorders. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168582	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Gamma-crystallins are a homogeneous group of highly symmetrical, monomeric proteins typically lacking connecting peptides and terminal extensions. They are differentially regulated after early development. Four gamma-crystallin genes (gamma-A through gamma-D) and three pseudogenes (gamma-E, gamma-F, gamma-G) are tandemly organized in a genomic segment as a gene cluster. Whether due to aging or mutations in specific genes, gamma-crystallins have been involved in cataract formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198513	 The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase and a Golgi body transmembrane protein. The encoded protein can form a homotetramer and has been shown to interact with spastin and with mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4. This protein may be involved in axonal maintenance as evidenced by the fact that defects in this gene are a cause of spastic paraplegia type 3. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101986	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal import of fatty acids and/or fatty acyl-CoAs in the organelle. All known peroxisomal ABC transporters are half transporters which require a partner half transporter molecule to form a functional homodimeric or heterodimeric transporter. This peroxisomal membrane protein is likely involved in the peroxisomal transport or catabolism of very long chain fatty acids. Defects in this gene have been identified as the underlying cause of adrenoleukodystrophy, an X-chromosome recessively inherited demyelinating disorder of the nervous system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135828	 This gene encodes a component of the interferon-regulated 2-5A system that functions in the antiviral and antiproliferative roles of interferons. Mutations in this gene have been associated with predisposition to prostate cancer and this gene is a candidate for the hereditary prostate cancer 1 (HPC1) allele. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138449	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cell membrane protein that may be involved in iron export from duodenal epithelial cells. Defects in this gene are a cause of hemochromatosis type 4 (HFE4). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134769	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the dystrobrevin subfamily of the dystrophin family. This protein is a component of the dystrophin-associated protein complex (DPC), which consists of dystrophin and several integral and peripheral membrane proteins, including dystroglycans, sarcoglycans, syntrophins and alpha- and beta-dystrobrevin. The DPC localizes to the sarcolemma and its disruption is associated with various forms of muscular dystrophy. Mutations in this gene are associated with left ventricular noncompaction with congenital heart defects. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000033011	 The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the first mannosylation step in the biosynthesis of lipid-linked oligosaccharides. This gene is mutated in congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ik. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000163933	 This gene encodes an enzyme which catalyzes the translocation of the Man(5)GlcNAc (2)-PP-Dol intermediate from the cytoplasmic to the luminal side of the endoplasmic reticulum membrane in the pathway for the N-glycosylation of proteins. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital disorder of glycosylation type In.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000165409	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein and a major controller of thyroid cell metabolism. The encoded protein is a receptor for thyrothropin and thyrostimulin, and its activity is mediated by adenylate cyclase. Defects in this gene are a cause of several types of hyperthyroidism. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000137868	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein involved in the metabolism of retinol. The encoded protein acts as a receptor for retinol/retinol binding protein complexes. This protein removes the retinol from the complex and transports it across the cell membrane. Defects in this gene are a cause of syndromic microphthalmia type 9 (MCOPS9). Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000085563	 The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance. The protein encoded by this gene is an ATP-dependent drug efflux pump for xenobiotic compounds with broad substrate specificity. It is responsible for decreased drug accumulation in multidrug-resistant cells and often mediates the development of resistance to anticancer drugs. This protein also functions as a transporter in the blood-brain barrier. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000154856	 This locus encodes an inhibitor of the Wnt signaling pathway. Mutations at this locus have been associated with hereditary hypotrichosis simplex. Increased expression of this gene may also be associated with colorectal carcinogenesis.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000196167	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AP002448.3. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000134954	 This gene encodes a member of the ETS family of transcription factors, which are defined by the presence of a conserved ETS DNA-binding domain that recognizes the core consensus DNA sequence GGAA/T in target genes. These proteins function either as transcriptional activators or repressors of numerous genes, and are involved in stem cell development, cell senescence and death, and tumorigenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000174231	 Pre-mRNA splicing occurs in 2 sequential transesterification steps. The protein encoded by this gene is a component of both U2- and U12-dependent spliceosomes, and found to be essential for the catalytic step II in pre-mRNA splicing process. It contains several WD repeats, which function in protein-protein interactions. This protein has a sequence similarity to yeast Prp8 protein. This gene is a candidate gene for autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112357	 This gene encodes the cytosolic receptor for the set of peroxisomal matrix enzymes targeted to the organelle by the peroxisome targeting signal 2 (PTS2). Defects in this gene cause peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs), which are characterized by multiple defects in peroxisome function. There are at least 14 complementation groups for PBDs, with more than one phenotype being observed in cases falling into particular complementation groups. Although the clinical features of PBD patients vary, cells from all PBD patients exhibit a defect in the import of one or more classes of peroxisomal matrix proteins into the organelle. Defects in this gene have been associated with PBD complementation group 11 (PBD-CG11) disorders, rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata type 1 (RCDP1), and Refsum disease (RD). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000165078	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of carboxypeptidases, which catalyze the release of C-terminal amino acid, and have functions ranging from digestion of food to selective biosynthesis of neuroendocrine peptides. Polymorphic variants and a reciprocal translocation t(6;8)(q26;q13) involving this gene, have been associated with Duane retraction syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000121680	 The protein encoded by this gene is an integral peroxisomal membrane protein. An inactivating nonsense mutation localized to this gene was observed in a patient with Zellweger syndrome of the complementation group CGD/CG9. Expression of this gene product morphologically and biochemically restores the formation of new peroxisomes, suggesting a role in peroxisome organization and biogenesis. Alternative splicing has been observed for this gene and two variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163914	 Retinitis pigmentosa is an inherited progressive disease which is a major cause of blindness in western communities. It can be inherited as an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked recessive disorder. In the autosomal dominant form,which comprises about 25% of total cases, approximately 30% of families have mutations in the gene encoding the rod photoreceptor-specific protein rhodopsin. This is the transmembrane protein which, when photoexcited, initiates the visual transduction cascade. Defects in this gene are also one of the causes of congenital stationary night blindness. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130561	 Members of arrestin/beta-arrestin protein family are thought to participate in agonist-mediated desensitization of G-protein-coupled receptors and cause specific dampening of cellular responses to stimuli such as hormones, neurotransmitters, or sensory signals. S-arrestin, also known as S-antigen, is a major soluble photoreceptor protein that is involved in desensitization of the photoactivated transduction cascade. It is expressed in the retina and the pineal gland and inhibits coupling of rhodopsin to transducin in vitro. Additionally, S-arrestin is highly antigenic, and is capable of inducing experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Oguchi disease, a rare autosomal recessive form of night blindness. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100234	 This gene belongs to the TIMP gene family. The proteins encoded by this gene family are inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteinases, a group of peptidases involved in degradation of the extracellular matrix (ECM). Expression of this gene is induced in response to mitogenic stimulation and this netrin domain-containing protein is localized to the ECM. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the autosomal dominant disorder Sorsby's fundus dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000177374	 This gene functions as a growth regulatory and tumor repressor gene. Hypermethylation or deletion of the region of this gene have been associated with tumors and the contiguous-gene syndrome, Miller-Dieker syndrome. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000188937	 The product of this gene belongs to the small leucine-rich proteoglycan (SLRP) family of proteins. Defects in this gene are the cause of congenital stationary night blindness type 1 (CSNB1), also called X-linked congenital stationary night blindness (XLCSNB). CSNB1 is a rare inherited retinal disorder characterized by impaired scotopic vision, myopia, hyperopia, nystagmus and reduced visual acuity. The role of other SLRP proteins suggests that mutations in this gene disrupt developing retinal interconnections involving the ON-bipolar cells, leading to the visual losses seen in patients with complete CSNB. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000171094	 This gene encodes a receptor tyrosine kinase, which belongs to the insulin receptor superfamily. This protein comprises an extracellular domain, an hydrophobic stretch corresponding to a single pass transmembrane region, and an intracellular kinase domain. It plays an important role in the development of the brain and exerts its effects on specific neurons in the nervous system. This gene has been found to be rearranged, mutated, or amplified in a series of tumours including anaplastic large cell lymphomas, neuroblastoma, and non-small cell lung cancer. The chromosomal rearrangements are the most common genetic alterations in this gene, which result in creation of multiple fusion genes in tumourigenesis, including ALK (chromosome 2)/EML4 (chromosome 2), ALK/RANBP2 (chromosome 2), ALK/ATIC (chromosome 2), ALK/TFG (chromosome 3), ALK/NPM1 (chromosome 5), ALK/SQSTM1 (chromosome 5), ALK/KIF5B (chromosome 10), ALK/CLTC (chromosome 17), ALK/TPM4 (chromosome 19), and ALK/MSN (chromosome X).[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000240403	 Killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) are transmembrane glycoproteins expressed by natural killer cells and subsets of T cells. The KIR genes are polymorphic and highly homologous and they are found in a cluster on chromosome 19q13.4 within the 1 Mb leukocyte receptor complex (LRC). The gene content of the KIR gene cluster varies among haplotypes, although several 'framework' genes are found in all haplotypes (KIR3DL3, KIR3DP1, KIR3DL4, KIR3DL2). The KIR proteins are classified by the number of extracellular immunoglobulin domains (2D or 3D) and by whether they have a long (L) or short (S) cytoplasmic domain. KIR proteins with the long cytoplasmic domain transduce inhibitory signals upon ligand binding via an immune tyrosine-based inhibitory motif (ITIM), while KIR proteins with the short cytoplasmic domain lack the ITIM motif and instead associate with the TYRO protein tyrosine kinase binding protein to transduce activating signals. The ligands for several KIR proteins are subsets of HLA class I molecules; thus, KIR proteins are thought to play an important role in regulation of the immune response. This gene is one of the 'framework' loci that is present on all haplotypes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000138095	 This gene encodes a leucine-rich protein that has multiple pentatricopeptide repeats (PPR). The precise role of this protein is unknown but studies suggest it may play a role in cytoskeletal organization, vesicular transport, or in transcriptional regulation of both nuclear and mitochondrial genes. The protein localizes primarily to mitochondria and is predicted to have an N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence. Mutations in this gene are associated with the French-Canadian type of Leigh syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000108813	 Many vertebrate homeo box-containing genes have been identified on the basis of their sequence similarity with Drosophila developmental genes. Members of the Dlx gene family contain a homeobox that is related to that of Distal-less (Dll), a gene expressed in the head and limbs of the developing fruit fly. The Distal-less (Dlx) family of genes comprises at least 6 different members, DLX1-DLX6. The DLX proteins are postulated to play a role in forebrain and craniofacial development. Three transcript variants have been described for this gene, however, the full length nature of one variant has not been described. Studies of the two splice variants revealed that one encoded isoform functions as a repressor of the beta-globin gene while the other isoform lacks that function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113231	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) that catalyzes the hydrolysis of the second messenger cAMP. The encoded protein, which does not hydrolyze cGMP, is resistant to several PDE inhibitors. Defects in this gene are a cause of autosomal dominant striatal degeneration (ADSD). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000141385	 This gene encodes a protein localized in mitochondria and closely related to paraplegin. The paraplegin gene is responsible for an autosomal recessive form of hereditary spastic paraplegia. This gene is a candidate gene for other hereditary spastic paraplegias or neurodegenerative disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145216	 This gene encodes a subunit of the CPSF (cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor) complex that polyadenylates the 3' end of mRNA precursors. This gene, the homolog of yeast Fip1 (factor interacting with PAP), binds to U-rich sequences of pre-mRNA and stimulates poly(A) polymerase activity. Its N-terminus contains a PAP-binding site and its C-terminus an RNA-binding domain. An interstitial chromosomal deletion on 4q12 creates an in-frame fusion of human genes FIP1L1 and PDGFRA (platelet-derived growth factor receptor, alpha). The FIP1L1-PDGFRA fusion gene encodes a constitutively activated tyrosine kinase that joins the first 233 amino acids of FIP1L1 to the last 523 amino acids of PDGFRA. This gene fusion and chromosomal deletion is the cause of some forms of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES). This syndrome, recently reclassified as chronic eosinophilic leukemia (CEL), is responsive to treatment with tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000166794	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cyclosporine-binding protein and is mainly located within the endoplasmic reticulum. It is associated with the secretory pathway and released in biological fluids. This protein can bind to cells derived from T- and B-lymphocytes, and may regulate cyclosporine A-mediated immunosuppression. Variants have been identified in this protein that give rise to recessive forms of osteogenesis imperfecta. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000146938	 This gene encodes a member of a family of neuronal cell surface proteins. Members of this family may act as splice site-specific ligands for beta-neurexins and may be involved in the formation and remodeling of central nervous system synapses. The encoded protein interacts with discs, large (Drosophila) homolog 4 (DLG4). Mutations in this gene have been associated with autism and Asperger syndrome. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183337	 The protein encoded by this gene was identified as an interacting corepressor of BCL6, a POZ/zinc finger transcription repressor that is required for germinal center formation and may influence apoptosis. This protein selectively interacts with the POZ domain of BCL6, but not with eight other POZ proteins. Specific class I and II histone deacetylases (HDACs) have been shown to interact with this protein, which suggests a possible link between the two classes of HDACs. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome Y.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000138075	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the White subfamily. The protein encoded by this gene functions as a half-transporter to limit intestinal absorption and promote biliary excretion of sterols. It is expressed in a tissue-specific manner in the liver, colon, and intestine. This gene is tandemly arrayed on chromosome 2, in a head-to-head orientation with family member ABCG8. Mutations in this gene may contribute to sterol accumulation and atheroschlerosis, and have been observed in patients with sitosterolemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000149571	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the nephrin-like protein family. These proteins are expressed in fetal and adult brain, and also in podocytes of kidney glomeruli. The cytoplasmic domains of these proteins interact with the C-terminus of podocin, also expressed in the podocytes, cells involved in ensuring size- and charge-selective ultrafiltration. Mutations in this gene are associated with mental retardation autosomal dominant type 4 (MRD4). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000104133	 The protein encoded by this gene is a potential transmembrane protein that is phosphorylated upon DNA damage. Defects in this gene are a cause of spastic paraplegia type 11 (SPG11). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000143921	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the White subfamily. The protein encoded by this gene functions to exclude non-cholesterol sterol entry at the intestinal level, promote excretion of cholesterol and sterols into bile, and to facilitate transport of sterols back into the intestinal lumen. It is expressed in a tissue-specific manner in the liver, intestine, and gallbladder. This gene is tandemly arrayed on chromosome 2, in a head-to-head orientation with family member ABCG5. Mutations in this gene may contribute to sterol accumulation and atherosclerosis, and have been observed in patients with sitosterolemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000090776	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein and a ligand of Eph-related receptor tyrosine kinases. It may play a role in cell adhesion and function in the development or maintenance of the nervous system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165730	 The protein encoded by this gene may function as a DNA binding protein. Mutations in this gene are associated with pre-eclampsia/eclampsia 4 (PEE4). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000135100	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor required for the expression of several liver-specific genes. The encoded protein functions as a homodimer and binds to the inverted palindrome 5'-GTTAATNATTAAC-3'. Defects in this gene are a cause of maturity onset diabetes of the young type 3 (MODY3) and also can result in the appearance of hepatic adenomas. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000166278	 Component C2 is a serum glycoprotein that functions as part of the classical pathway of the complement system. Activated C1 cleaves C2 into C2a and C2b. The serine proteinase C2a then combines with complement factor 4b to create the C3 or C5 convertase. Deficiency of C2 has been reported to associated with certain autoimmune diseases and SNPs in this gene have been associated with altered susceptibility to age-related macular degeneration. This gene localizes within the class III region of the MHC on the short arm of chromosome 6. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional transcript variants have been described in publications but their full-length sequence has not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000138623	 The protein encoded by this gene binds to cell surfaces through a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) linkage. The encoded glycoprotein is found on activated lymphocytes and erythrocytes. This protein may be involved in immunomodulatory and neuronal processes. Defects in this gene can result in loss of bone mineral density (BMD). Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000187676	 The protein encoded by this gene is a beta-1,3-glucosyltransferase that transfers glucose to O-linked fucosylglycans on thrombospondin type-1 repeats (TSRs) of several proteins. The encoded protein is a type II membrane protein. Defects in this gene are a cause of Peters-plus syndrome (PPS).[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000126953	 This translocase is involved in the import and insertion of hydrophobic membrane proteins from the cytoplasm into the mitochondrial inner membrane. The gene is mutated in Mohr-Tranebjaerg syndrome/Deafness Dystonia Syndrome (MTS/DDS) and it is postulated that MTS/DDS is a mitochondrial disease caused by a defective mitochondrial protein import system. Defects in this gene also cause Jensen syndrome; an X-linked disease with opticoacoustic nerve atrophy and muscle weakness. This protein, along with TIMM13, forms a 70 kDa heterohexamer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000140525	 The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2). The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA. Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair. The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex. This gene encodes the protein for complementation group I. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166037	 This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein called Translokin. This protein localizes to the centrosome and has a function in microtubular stabilization. The N-terminal half of this protein is required for its centrosome localization and for its multimerization, and the C-terminal half is required for nucleating, bundling and anchoring microtubules to the centrosomes. This protein specifically interacts with fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2), sorting nexin 6, Ran-binding protein M and the kinesins KIF3A and KIF3B, and thus mediates the nuclear translocation and mitogenic activity of the FGF2. It also interacts with cyclin D1 and controls nucleocytoplasmic distribution of the cyclin D1 in quiescent cells. This protein is crucial for maintaining correct chromosomal number during cell division. Mutations in this gene cause mosaic variegated aneuploidy syndrome, a rare autosomal recessive disorder. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000108641	 This gene encodes a B9 domain-containing protein, one of several that are involved in ciliogenesis. Alterations in expression of this gene have been found in a family with Meckel syndrome. Meckel syndrome has been associated with at least six different genes. This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different proteins have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000108759	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. As a type I hair keratin, it is an acidic protein which heterodimerizes with type II keratins to form hair and nails. The type I hair keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21 and have the same direction of transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170819	 More than 99% of the vertebrate ocular lens is comprised of terminally differentiated lens fiber cells. Two lens-specific intermediate filament-like proteins, the protein product of this gene (phakinin), and filensin, are expressed only after fiber cell differentiation has begun. Both proteins are found in a structurally unique cytoskeletal element that is referred to as the beaded filament (BF). Mutations in this gene have been associated with juvenile-onset, progressive cataracts and Dowling-Meara epidermolysis bullosa simplex. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000139648	 Keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into epithelial keratins and hair keratins. This gene encodes a protein that is expressed in the inner root sheath of hair follicles. The type II keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q13.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000170486	 Keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells. The type II keratins consist of basic or neutral proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains coexpressed during differentiation of simple and stratified epithelial tissues. This gene encodes a type II keratin that is specifically expressed in the inner root sheath of hair follicles. The type II keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q12-q13. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000185069	 Keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into epithelial keratins and hair keratins. The type II keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q13. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000162520	 This gene encodes a member of the intermediate filament family which contains an N-terminal head domain, followed by a central coiled-coil region and a short C-terminal tail. The protein is highly expressed in skeletal and cardiac muscle. The protein links the dystrophin associated protein complex (DAPC) to desmin filaments in muscle and may have a structural role in striated muscle. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000125864	 More than 99% of the vertebrate ocular lens is comprised of terminally differentiated lens fiber cells. Two lens-specific intermediate filament-like proteins, CP49 (also known as phakinin) and the protein product of this gene, filensin, are expressed only after fiber cell differentiation has begun. Both proteins are found in a structurally unique cytoskeletal element that is referred to as the beaded filament (BF). Mutations in this gene are the cause of autosomal recessive cortical juvenile-onset cataract. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000179869	 In human, the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) family of transmembrane transporters has at least 48 genes and 7 gene subfamilies. This gene is a member of ABC gene subfamily A (ABCA). Genes within the ABCA family typically encode several thousand amino acids. Like other ABC transmembrane transporter proteins, this protein has 12 or more transmembrane alpha-helix domains that likely arrange to form a single central chamber with multiple substrate binding sites. It is also predicted to have two large extracellular domains and two nucleotide binding domains as is typical for ABCA proteins. Alternative splice variants have been described but their biological validity has not been demonstrated.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000119888	 This gene encodes a carcinoma-associated antigen and is a member of a family that includes at least two type I membrane proteins. This antigen is expressed on most normal epithelial cells and gastrointestinal carcinomas and functions as a homotypic calcium-independent cell adhesion molecule. The antigen is being used as a target for immunotherapy treatment of human carcinomas. Mutations in this gene result in congenital tufting enteropathy. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000166033	 This gene encodes a member of the trypsin family of serine proteases. This protein is a secreted enzyme that is proposed to regulate the availability of insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) by cleaving IGF-binding proteins. It has also been suggested to be a regulator of cell growth. Variations in the promoter region of this gene are the cause of susceptibility to age-related macular degeneration type 7. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000091010	 This gene encodes a member of the POU-domain family of transcription factors. POU-domain proteins have been observed to play important roles in control of cell identity in several systems. This protein is found in the retina and may play a role in determining or maintaining the identities of a small subset of visual system neurons. Defects in this gene are the cause of non-syndromic sensorineural deafness autosomal dominant type 15. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000138294	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunoglobulin binding factor family. It is synthesized by the epithelial cells of the prostate gland and secreted into the seminal plasma. This protein has inhibin-like activity. It may have a role as an autocrine paracrine factor in uterine, breast and other female reproductive tissues. The expression of the encoded protein is found to be decreased in prostate cancer. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms are described for this gene. The use of alternate polyadenylation sites has been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000158352	 This gene encodes a member of the APX/Shroom family, which contain an N-terminal PDZ domain and a C-terminal ASD2 motif. The encoded protein may play a role in cytoskeletal architecture. Mutations in this gene have been linked to Stocco dos Santos X-linked mental retardation syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000078328	 The Fox-1 family of RNA-binding proteins is evolutionarily conserved, and regulates tissue-specific alternative splicing in metazoa. Fox-1 recognizes a (U)GCAUG stretch in regulated exons or in flanking introns. The protein binds to the C-terminus of ataxin-2 and may contribute to the restricted pathology of spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2). Ataxin-2 is the product of the SCA2 gene which causes familial neurodegenerative diseases. Fox-1 and ataxin-2 are both localized in the trans-Golgi network. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000108784	 This gene encodes an enzyme that degrades heparan sulfate by hydrolysis of terminal N-acetyl-D-glucosamine residues in N-acetyl-alpha-D-glucosaminides. Defects in this gene are the cause of mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB (MPS-IIIB), also known as Sanfilippo syndrome B. This disease is characterized by the lysosomal accumulation and urinary excretion of heparan sulfate. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100243	 This gene encodes cytochrome b5 reductase, which includes a membrane-bound form in somatic cells (anchored in the endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondrial and other membranes) and a soluble form in erythrocytes. The membrane-bound form exists mainly on the cytoplasmic side of the endoplasmic reticulum and functions in desaturation and elongation of fatty acids, in cholesterol biosynthesis, and in drug metabolism. The erythrocyte form is located in a soluble fraction of circulating erythrocytes and is involved in methemoglobin reduction. The membrane-bound form has both membrane-binding and catalytic domains, while the soluble form has only the catalytic domain. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Mutations in this gene cause methemoglobinemias. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000117480	 This gene encodes a protein that is responsible for the hydrolysis of a number of primary and secondary fatty acid amides, including the neuromodulatory compounds anandamide and oleamide. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000153487	 This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein that can induce cell growth arrest and apoptosis. The encoded protein is a nuclear protein that physically interacts with the tumor suppressor protein TP53 and is a component of the p53 signaling pathway. Reduced expression and rearrangement of this gene have been detected in various cancers. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169564	 This intronless gene is thought to have been generated by retrotransposition of a fully processed PCBP-2 mRNA. This gene and PCBP-2 have paralogues (PCBP3 and PCBP4) which are thought to have arisen as a result of duplication events of entire genes. The protein encoded by this gene appears to be multifunctional. It along with PCBP-2 and hnRNPK corresponds to the major cellular poly(rC)-binding protein. It contains three K-homologous (KH) domains which may be involved in RNA binding. This encoded protein together with PCBP-2 also functions as translational coactivators of poliovirus RNA via a sequence-specific interaction with stem-loop IV of the IRES and promote poliovirus RNA replication by binding to its 5'-terminal cloverleaf structure. It has also been implicated in translational control of the 15-lipoxygenase mRNA, human Papillomavirus type 16 L2 mRNA, and hepatitis A virus RNA. The encoded protein is also suggested to play a part in formation of a sequence-specific alpha-globin mRNP complex which is associated with alpha-globin mRNA stability. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000142330	 Calpains represent a ubiquitous, well-conserved family of calcium-dependent cysteine proteases. The calpain proteins are heterodimers consisting of an invariant small subunit and variable large subunits. The large catalytic subunit has four domains: domain I, the N-terminal regulatory domain that is processed upon calpain activation; domain II, the protease domain; domain III, a linker domain of unknown function; and domain IV, the calmodulin-like calcium-binding domain. This gene encodes a large subunit. It is an atypical calpain in that it lacks the calmodulin-like calcium-binding domain and instead has a divergent C-terminal domain. It is similar in organization to calpains 5 and 6. This gene is associated with type 2 or non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), and is located within the NIDDM1 region. Multiple alternative transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000204539	 This gene encodes a protein found in corneodesmosomes, which localize to human epidermis and other cornified squamous epithelia. During maturation of the cornified layers, the protein undergoes a series of cleavages, which are thought to be required for desquamation. The gene is located in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I region on chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126267	 Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. It is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may be involved in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes subunit VIb. Mutations in this gene are associated with severe infantile encephalomyopathy. Three pseudogenes COX6BP-1, COX6BP-2 and COX6BP-3 have been found on chromosomes 7, 17 and 22q13.1-13.2, respectively. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000114867	 The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the multi-subunit protein complex EIF4F. This complex facilitates the recruitment of mRNA to the ribosome, which is a rate-limiting step during the initiation phase of protein synthesis. The recognition of the mRNA cap and the ATP-dependent unwinding of 5'-terminal secondary structure is catalyzed by factors in this complex. The subunit encoded by this gene is a large scaffolding protein that contains binding sites for other members of the EIF4F complex. A domain at its N-terminus can also interact with the poly(A)-binding protein, which may mediate the circularization of mRNA during translation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, some of which are derived from alternative promoter usage. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000176402	 This gene encodes a gap junction protein. The encoded protein, also known as a connexin, plays a role in formation of gap junctions, which provide direct connections between neighboring cells. Mutations in this gene have been reported to be associated with nonsyndromic hearing loss.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000119919	 This gene encodes a homeodomain-containing transcription factor. The encoded protein is a member of the NKX family of homeodomain transcription factors. Studies of similar proteins in mouse and rat have indicated a potential role in cellular differentiation.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000130052	 This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of Rho GTPase activating proteins that contain a steroidogenic acute regulatory protein related lipid transfer domain. The encoded protein localizes to focal adhesions and may be involved in regulating cell morphology. This protein may also function as a tumor suppressor. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000102384	 The product of this gene is involved in the response of gonadal tissues to follicle-stimulating hormone. This gene is also a potential candidate for human X-linked disorders of gonadal development and gametogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102287	 The product of this gene belongs to the ligand-gated ionic channel (TC 1.A.9) family. It encodes the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor which is a multisubunit chloride channel that mediates the fastest inhibitory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. This gene encodes an epsilon subunit. It is mapped to chromosome Xq28 in a cluster comprised of genes encoding alpha 3, beta 4 and theta subunits of the same receptor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified, but only one is thought to encode a protein. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000126010	 Gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) regulates numerous functions of the gastrointestinal and central nervous systems, including release of gastrointestinal hormones, smooth muscle cell contraction, and epithelial cell proliferation and is a potent mitogen for neoplastic tissues. The effects of GRP are mediated through the gastrin-releasing peptide receptor. This receptor is a glycosylated, 7-transmembrane G-protein coupled receptor that activates the phospholipase C signaling pathway. The receptor is aberrantly expressed in numerous cancers such as those of the lung, colon, and prostate. An individual with autism and multiple exostoses was found to have a balanced translocation between chromosome 8 and a chromosome X breakpoint located within the gastrin-releasing peptide receptor gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102057	 Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes - shaker, shaw, shab, and shal - have been identified in Drosophila, and each has been shown to have human homolog(s). This gene encodes a member of the potassium channel, voltage-gated, shal-related subfamily, members of which form voltage-activated A-type potassium ion channels and are prominent in the repolarization phase of the action potential. This gene is expressed at moderate levels in all tissues analyzed, with lower levels in skeletal muscle. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102225	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cdc2/cdkx subfamily of the ser/thr family of protein kinases. It may play a role in signal transduction cascades in terminally differentiated cells; in exocytosis; and in transport of secretory cargo from the endoplasmic reticulum. This gene is thought to escape X inactivation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000115592	 The protein encoded by this gene is a regulatory subunit of the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). AMPK is a heterotrimer consisting of an alpha catalytic subunit, and non-catalytic beta and gamma subunits. AMPK is an important energy-sensing enzyme that monitors cellular energy status. In response to cellular metabolic stresses, AMPK is activated, and thus phosphorylates and inactivates acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) and beta-hydroxy beta-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR), key enzymes involved in regulating de novo biosynthesis of fatty acid and cholesterol. This subunit is one of the gamma regulatory subunits of AMPK. It is dominantly expressed in skeletal muscle. Studies of the pig counterpart suggest that this subunit may play a key role in the regulation of energy metabolism in skeletal muscle. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173531	 The protein encoded by this gene contains four kringle domains and a serine protease domain, similar to that found in hepatic growth factor. Despite the presence of the serine protease domain, the encoded protein may not have any proteolytic activity. The receptor for this protein is RON tyrosine kinase, which upon activation stimulates ciliary motility of ciliated epithelial lung cells. This protein is secreted and cleaved to form an alpha chain and a beta chain bridged by disulfide bonds. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000147437	 The protein encoded by this gene is secreted and then cleaved to form the 10 aa luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH, also known as gonadoliberin-1), and prolactin release-inhibiting factor (also known as GnRH-associated peptide 1). LHRH stimulates the release of luteinizing and follicle stimulating hormones, which are important for reproduction. Mutation in this gene are associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000134160	 This gene encodes a member of the transient receptor potential melastatin subfamily of transient receptor potential ion channels. The encoded protein is a calcium permeable cation channel that is expressed in melanocytes and may play a role in melanin synthesis. Specific mutations in this gene are the cause autosomal recessive complete congenital stationary night blindness-1C. The expression of this protein is inversely correlated with melanoma aggressiveness and as such it is used as a prognostic marker for melanoma metastasis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000147133	 Initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II requires the activities of more than 70 polypeptides. The protein that coordinates these activities is the basal transcription factor TFIID, which binds to the core promoter to position the polymerase properly, serves as the scaffold for assembly of the remainder of the transcription complex, and acts as a channel for regulatory signals. TFIID is composed of the TATA-binding protein (TBP) and a group of evolutionarily conserved proteins known as TBP-associated factors or TAFs. TAFs may participate in basal transcription, serve as coactivators, function in promoter recognition or modify general transcription factors (GTFs) to facilitate complex assembly and transcription initiation. This gene encodes the largest subunit of TFIID. This subunit binds to core promoter sequences encompassing the transcription start site. It also binds to activators and other transcriptional regulators, and these interactions affect the rate of transcription initiation. This subunit contains two independent protein kinase domains at the N and C-terminals, but also possesses acetyltransferase activity and can act as a ubiquitin-activating/conjugating enzyme. This gene is part of a complex transcriptional unit (TAF1/DYT3), wherein some products share exons with TAF1 as well as additional exons downstream.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000139618	 Inherited mutations in BRCA1 and this gene, BRCA2, confer increased lifetime risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer. Both BRCA1 and BRCA2 are involved in maintenance of genome stability, specifically the homologous recombination pathway for double-strand DNA repair. The BRCA2 protein contains several copies of a 70 aa motif called the BRC motif, and these motifs mediate binding to the RAD51 recombinase which functions in DNA repair. BRCA2 is considered a tumor suppressor gene, as tumors with BRCA2 mutations generally exhibit loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of the wild-type allele. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000077713	 This gene encodes a member of the mitochondrial carrier family of proteins.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000100749	 This gene encodes a member of the vaccinia-related kinase (VRK) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. This gene is widely expressed in human tissues and has increased expression in actively dividing cells, such as those in testis, thymus, fetal liver, and carcinomas. Its protein localizes to the nucleus and has been shown to promote the stability and nuclear accumulation of a transcriptionally active p53 molecule and, in vitro, to phosphorylate Thr18 of p53 and reduce p53 ubiquitination. This gene, therefore, may regulate cell proliferation. This protein also phosphorylates histone, casein, and the transcription factors ATF2 (activating transcription factor 2) and c-JUN. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000068323	 The microphthalmia transcription factor/transcription factor E (MITF-TFE) family of basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper (bHLH-Zip) transcription factors includes four family members: MITF, TFE3, TFEB and TFEC. The TEF3 protein encoded by this gene activates transcription through binding to the muE3 motif of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain enhancer. The TFEC protein forms heterodimers with the TEF3 protein and inhibits TFE3-dependent transcription activation. The TEF3 protein interacts with transcription regulators such as E2F3, SMAD3, and LEF-1, and is involved in TGF-beta-induced transcription, playing important roles in cell growth, proliferation, and osteoclast and macrophage differentiation. The TFE3 protein also activates hepatic IRS-2 gene, and induces hexokinase II (HK2) and insulin-induced gene 1 (INSIG1); it participates in insulin signaling and could be a therapeutic target for diabetes. This gene is also involved in chromosomal translocations, resulting in different fusion gene products in papillary renal cell carcinomas and alveolar soft part sarcomas, such as PRCC-TFE3, RCC17-TFE3, PSF-TFE3, NonO (p54nrb)-TFE3 and ASPL-TFE3.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000149948	 This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the non-histone chromosomal high mobility group (HMG) protein family. HMG proteins function as architectural factors and are essential components of the enhancesome. This protein contains structural DNA-binding domains and may act as a transcriptional regulating factor. Identification of the deletion, amplification, and rearrangement of this gene that are associated with myxoid liposarcoma suggests a role in adipogenesis and mesenchymal differentiation. A gene knock out study of the mouse counterpart demonstrated that this gene is involved in diet-induced obesity. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170558	 This gene is a classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily. The encoded protein is a calcium dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoprotein comprised of five extracellular cadherin repeats, a transmembrane region and a highly conserved cytoplasmic tail. The protein functions during gastrulation and is required for establishment of left-right asymmetry. At certain central nervous system synapses, presynaptic to postsynaptic adhesion is mediated at least in part by this gene product. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183691	 The secreted polypeptide, encoded by this gene, binds and inactivates members of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily signaling proteins, such as bone morphogenetic protein-4 (BMP4). By diffusing through extracellular matrices more efficiently than members of the TGF-beta superfamily, this protein may have a principal role in creating morphogenic gradients. The protein appears to have pleiotropic effect, both early in development as well as in later stages. It was originally isolated from Xenopus based on its ability to restore normal dorsal-ventral body axis in embryos that had been artificially ventralized by UV treatment. The results of the mouse knockout of the ortholog suggest that it is involved in numerous developmental processes, such as neural tube fusion and joint formation. Recently, several dominant human NOG mutations in unrelated families with proximal symphalangism (SYM1) and multiple synostoses syndrome (SYNS1) were identified; both SYM1 and SYNS1 have multiple joint fusion as their principal feature, and map to the same region (17q22) as this gene. All of these mutations altered evolutionarily conserved amino acid residues. The amino acid sequence of this human gene is highly homologous to that of Xenopus, rat and mouse. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000149489	 This gene is a member of a photoreceptor-specific gene family and encodes an integral membrane protein found in the photoreceptor disk rim of the eye. This protein can form homodimers or can heterodimerize with another photoreceptor, retinal degeneration slow (RDS). It is essential for disk morphogenesis, and may also function as an adhesion molecule involved in the stabilization and compaction of outer segment disks or in the maintenance of the curvature of the rim. Certain defects in this gene have been associated with the degenerative eye disease retinitis pigmentosa. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171346	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. The keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells and are subdivided into cytokeratins and hair keratins. Most of the type I cytokeratins consist of acidic proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains and are clustered in a region on chromosome 17q21.2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167083	 Phototransduction in rod and cone photoreceptors is regulated by groups of signaling proteins. The encoded protein is thought to play a crucial role in cone phototransduction. It belongs to the G protein gamma family and localized specifically in cones. Several transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000113924	 This gene encodes the enzyme homogentisate 1,2 dioxygenase. This enzyme is involved in the catabolism of the amino acids tyrosine and phenylalanine. Mutations in this gene are the cause of the autosomal recessive metabolism disorder alkaptonuria.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000101197	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the family of inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAP) and contains a single copy of a baculovirus IAP repeat (BIR) as well as a RING-type zinc finger domain. The BIR domain is essential for inhibitory activity and interacts with caspases, while the RING finger domain sometimes enhances antiapoptotic activity but does not inhibit apoptosis alone. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The two isoforms have different antiapoptotic properties, with isoform alpha protecting cells from apoptosis induced by staurosporine and isoform b protecting cells from apoptosis induced by etoposide. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000088836	 This gene encodes a voltage-regulated, electrogenic sodium-coupled borate cotransporter that is essential for borate homeostasis, cell growth and cell proliferation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a number of endothelial corneal dystrophies including recessive corneal endothelial dystrophy 2, corneal dystrophy and perceptive deafness, and Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000181804	 This gene encodes a sodium/proton exchanger that is a member of the solute carrier 9 protein family. The encoded protein localizes the to the late recycling endosomes and may play an important role in maintaining cation homeostasis. Mutations in this gene are associated with autism susceptibility 16 and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000151729	 This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier subfamily of solute carrier protein genes. The product of this gene functions as a gated pore that translocates ADP from the mitochondrial matrix into the cytoplasm. The protein forms a homodimer embedded in the inner mitochondria membrane. Mutations in this gene have been shown to result in autosomal dominant progressive external opthalmoplegia and familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000120088	 This gene encodes a G-protein coupled receptor that binds neuropeptides of the corticotropin releasing hormone family that are major regulators of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal pathway. The encoded protein is essential for the activation of signal transduction pathways that regulate diverse physiological processes including stress, reproduction, immune response and obesity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, one of which represents a read-through transcript with the neighboring gene MGC57346. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000105552	 This gene encodes a branched chain aminotransferase found in mitochondria. The encoded protein forms a dimer that catalyzes the first step in the production of the branched chain amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000138363	 This gene encodes a bifunctional protein that catalyzes the last two steps of the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway. The N-terminal domain has phosphoribosylaminoimidazolecarboxamide formyltransferase activity, and the C-terminal domain has IMP cyclohydrolase activity. A mutation in this gene results in AICA-ribosiduria. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000004948	 This gene encodes a high affinity receptor for the peptide hormone calcitonin and belongs to a subfamily of seven transmembrane-spanning G protein-coupled receptors. The encoded protein is involved in maintaining calcium homeostasis and in regulating osteoclast-mediated bone resorption. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with variations in bone mineral density and onset of osteoporosis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000132693	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the pentaxin family. It is involved in several host defense related functions based on its ability to recognize foreign pathogens and damaged cells of the host and to initiate their elimination by interacting with humoral and cellular effector systems in the blood. Consequently, the level of this protein in plasma increases greatly during acute phase response to tissue injury, infection, or other inflammatory stimuli. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000170370	 This gene encodes a homeobox-containing transcription factor that is the homolog to the 'empty spiracles' gene in Drosophila. Research on this gene in humans has focused on its expression in three tissues: dorsal telencephalon, olfactory neuroepithelium, and urogenetial system. It is expressed in the dorsal telencephalon during development in a low rostral-lateral to high caudal-medial gradient and is proposed to pattern the neocortex into defined functional areas. It is also expressed in embryonic and adult olfactory neuroepithelia where it complexes with eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) and possibly regulates mRNA transport or translation. In the developing urogenital system, it is expressed in epithelial tissues and is negatively regulated by HOXA10. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct proteins.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000140464	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. This phosphoprotein localizes to nuclear bodies where it functions as a transcription factor and tumor suppressor. Its expression is cell-cycle related and it regulates the p53 response to oncogenic signals. The gene is often involved in the translocation with the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene associated with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Extensive alternative splicing of this gene results in several variations of the protein's central and C-terminal regions; all variants encode the same N-terminus. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140941	  The product of this gene is a subunit of neuronal microtubule-associated MAP1A and MAP1B proteins, which are involved in microtubule assembly and important for neurogenesis. Studies on the rat homolog implicate a role for this gene in autophagy, a process that involves the bulk degradation of cytoplasmic component. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000142627	 This gene belongs to the ephrin receptor subfamily of the protein-tyrosine kinase family. EPH and EPH-related receptors have been implicated in mediating developmental events, particularly in the nervous system. Receptors in the EPH subfamily typically have a single kinase domain and an extracellular region containing a Cys-rich domain and 2 fibronectin type III repeats. The ephrin receptors are divided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. This gene encodes a protein that binds ephrin-A ligands. Mutations in this gene are the cause of certain genetically-related cataract disorders.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000112038	 This gene encodes one of three opioid receptors. The mu opioid receptor is the principal target of endogenous opioid peptides and opioid analgesic agents such a s beta-endorphn and enkephalins. The NM_001008503.1:c.118A>G allele had been associated with opioid and alcohol addiction and variations in pain sensitivity but evidence is conflicting. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000181004	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of a complex that is involved in membrane trafficking. The encoded protein is a molecular chaperone that aids in protein folding upon ATP hydrolysis. This protein also plays a role in adipocyte differentiation. Defects in this gene are a cause of Bardet-Biedl syndrome type 12. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000126970	 This gene encodes a member of the zinc finger domain-containing protein family. This family member has a C-terminal zinc finger domain that is characterized by four cysteine residues and two histidine residues, and it also includes a coiled-coil region. This protein has been detected as an autoantigen in hepatocellular carcinoma patients. This gene has been identified as a potential candidate for X-linked mental retardation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000090006	 The protein encoded by this gene binds transforming growth factor beta (TGFB) as it is secreted and targeted to the extracellular matrix. TGFB is biologically latent after secretion and insertion into the extracellular matrix, and sheds TGFB and other proteins upon activation. Defects in this gene may be a cause of cutis laxa and severe pulmonary, gastrointestinal, and urinary abnormalities. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000147113	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AC136489.3 and AC136488.3. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000170180	 Glycophorins A (GYPA) and B (GYPB) are major sialoglycoproteins of the human erythrocyte membrane which bear the antigenic determinants for the MN and Ss blood groups. In addition to the M or N and S or s antigens that commonly occur in all populations, about 40 related variant phenotypes have been identified. These variants include all the variants of the Miltenberger complex and several isoforms of Sta, as well as Dantu, Sat, He, Mg, and deletion variants Ena, S-s-U- and Mk. Most of the variants are the result of gene recombinations between GYPA and GYPB. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000228459	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AC004616.1. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000196277	 L-glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, and it activates both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is involved in most aspects of normal brain function and can be perturbed in many neuropathologic conditions. The metabotropic glutamate receptors are a family of G protein-coupled receptors that have been divided into three groups on the basis of sequence homology, putative signal transduction mechanisms, and pharmacologic properties. Group I includes GRM1 and GRM5, and these receptors have been shown to activate phospholipase C. Group II includes GRM2 and GRM3, while Group III includes GRM4, GRM6, GRM7 and GRM8. Group II and III receptors are linked to the inhibition of the cyclic AMP cascade but differ in their agonist selectivities. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000079246	 The protein encoded by this gene is the 80-kilodalton subunit of the Ku heterodimer protein which is also known as ATP-dependant DNA helicase II or DNA repair protein XRCC5. Ku is the DNA-binding component of the DNA-dependent protein kinase, and it functions together with the DNA ligase IV-XRCC4 complex in the repair of DNA double-strand break by non-homologous end joining and the completion of V(D)J recombination events.  This gene functionally complements Chinese hamster xrs-6, a mutant defective in DNA double-strand break repair and in ability to undergo V(D)J recombination. A rare microsatellite polymorphism in this gene is associated with cancer in patients of varying radiosensitivity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000048540	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the rhombotin family of cysteine-rich LIM domain oncogenes. This gene is predominantly expressed in the brain. Related family members, LMO1 and LMO2 on chromosome 11, have been reported to be involved in chromosomal translocations in T-cell leukemia. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000163565	 This gene encodes a member of the HIN-200 (hematopoietic interferon-inducible nuclear antigens with 200 amino acid repeats) family of cytokines. The encoded protein contains domains involved in DNA binding, transcriptional regulation, and protein-protein interactions. The protein localizes to the nucleoplasm and nucleoli, and interacts with p53 and retinoblastoma-1. It modulates p53 function, and inhibits cell growth in the Ras/Raf signaling pathway. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000143384	 This gene encodes an anti-apoptotic protein, which is a member of the Bcl-2 family. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. The longest gene product (isoform 1) enhances cell survival by inhibiting apoptosis while the alternatively spliced shorter gene products (isoform 2 and isoform 3) promote apoptosis and are death-inducing. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000149021	 This gene encodes a member of the secretoglobin family of small secreted proteins. The encoded protein has been implicated in numerous functions including anti-inflammation, inhibition of phospholipase A2 and the sequestering of hydrophobic ligands. Defects in this gene are associated with a susceptibility to asthma. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000101825	 This gene encodes one of the matrix-remodelling associated proteins. This protein contains 7 leucine-rich repeats and 12 immunoglobulin-like C2-type domains related to perlecan. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome Y. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000183287	 This gene is thought to function in extracellular matrix remodeling and migration. It is predominantly expressed in the ovary, but down regulated in ovarian cancer cell lines and primary carcinomas, suggesting its role as a tumour suppressor. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Hennekam lymphangiectasia-lymphedema syndrome, a generalized lymphatic dysplasia in humans. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000121853	 This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family. The encoded protein may play a role in energy homeostasis and regulation of body weight. Two identified transcript variants are expressed in several tissues and are evolutionary conserved in fish and swine. One transcript, 1a, excises an intron and encodes the functional protein; this protein is the receptor for the Ghrelin ligand and defines a neuroendocrine pathway for growth hormone release. The second transcript (1b) retains the intron and does not function as a receptor for Ghrelin; however, it may function to attenuate activity of isoform 1a. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal idiopathic short stature.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000164756	 The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc efflux transporter involved in the accumulation of zinc in intracellular vesicles. This gene is expressed at a high level only in the pancreas, particularly in islets of Langerhans. The encoded protein colocalizes with insulin in the secretory pathway granules of the insulin-secreting INS-1 cells. Allelic variants of this gene exist that confer susceptibility to diabetes mellitus, noninsulin-dependent (NIDDM). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000182220	 This gene encodes a protein that is associated with adenosine triphosphatases (ATPases). Proton-translocating ATPases have fundamental roles in energy conservation, secondary active transport, acidification of intracellular compartments, and cellular pH homeostasis. There are three classes of ATPases- F, P, and V. The vacuolar (V-type) ATPases have a transmembrane proton-conducting sector and an extramembrane catalytic sector. The encoded protein has been found associated with the transmembrane sector of the V-type ATPases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171723	 This gene encodes a neuronal assembly protein that anchors inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors to the postsynaptic cytoskeleton via high affinity binding to a receptor subunit domain and tubulin dimers. In nonneuronal tissues, the encoded protein is also required for molybdenum cofactor biosynthesis. Mutations in this gene may be associated with the neurological condition hyperplexia and also lead to molybdenum cofactor deficiency. Numerous alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described; however, the full-length nature of all transcript variants is not currently known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000122367	 This gene encodes a PDZ domain-containing protein. PDZ motifs are modular protein-protein interaction domains consisting of 80-120 amino acid residues. PDZ domain-containing proteins interact with each other in cytoskeletal assembly or with other proteins involved in targeting and clustering of membrane proteins. The protein encoded by this gene interacts with alpha-actinin-2 through its N-terminal PDZ domain and with protein kinase C via its C-terminal LIM domains. The LIM domain is a cysteine-rich motif defined by 50-60 amino acids containing two zinc-binding modules. This protein also interacts with all three members of the myozenin family. Mutations in this gene have been associated with myofibrillar myopathy and dilated cardiomyopathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified; all isoforms have N-terminal PDZ domains while only longer isoforms (1, 2 and 5) have C-terminal LIM domains. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000196433	 This gene belongs to the methyltransferase superfamily, and is located in the pseudoautosomal region (PAR) at the end of the short arms of the X and Y chromosomes. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the final reaction in the synthesis of melatonin, and is abundant in the pineal gland. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000158125	 Xanthine dehydrogenase belongs to the group of molybdenum-containing hydroxylases involved in the oxidative metabolism of purines. The enzyme is a homodimer. Xanthine dehydrogenase can be converted to xanthine oxidase by reversible sulfhydryl oxidation or by irreversible proteolytic modification. Defects in xanthine dehydrogenase cause xanthinuria, may contribute to adult respiratory stress syndrome, and may potentiate influenza infection through an oxygen metabolite-dependent mechanism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000046651	 This gene is located on the X chromosome and encodes a centrosomal protein. A knockout mouse model has been used to study the effect of mutations in this gene. The mouse gene is also located on the X chromosome, however, unlike the human gene it is not subject to X inactivation. Mutations in this gene are associated with oral-facial-digital syndrome type I and Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome type 2. Many pseudogenes have been identified; a single pseudogene is found on chromosome 5 while as many as fifteen have been found on the Y chromosome. Alternatively spliced transcripts have been described for this gene but the biological validity of these transcripts has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187191	 This gene is a member of the DAZ gene family and is a candidate for the human Y-chromosomal azoospermia factor (AZF). Its expression is restricted to premeiotic germ cells, particularly in spermatogonia. It encodes an RNA-binding protein that is important for spermatogenesis. Four copies of this gene are found on chromosome Y within palindromic duplications; one pair of genes is part of the P2 palindrome and the second pair is part of the P1 palindrome. Each gene contains a 2.4 kb repeat including a 72-bp exon, called the DAZ repeat; the number of DAZ repeats is variable and there are several variations in the sequence of the DAZ repeat. Each copy of the gene also contains a 10.8 kb region that may be amplified; this region includes five exons that encode an RNA recognition motif (RRM) domain. This gene contains one copy of the 10.8 kb repeat. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000150782	 The protein encoded by this gene is a proinflammatory cytokine that augments natural killer cell activity in spleen cells, and stimulates interferon gamma production in T-helper type I cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000135679	 This gene is a target gene of the transcription factor tumor protein p53. The encoded protein is a nuclear phosphoprotein that binds and inhibits transactivation by tumor protein p53, as part of an autoregulatory negative feedback loop. Overexpression of this gene can result in excessive inactivation of tumor protein p53, diminishing its tumor suppressor function. This protein has E3 ubiquitin ligase activity, which targets tumor protein p53 for proteasomal degradation. This protein also affects the cell cycle, apoptosis, and tumorigenesis through interactions with other proteins, including retinoblastoma 1 and ribosomal protein L5. More than 40 different alternatively spliced transcript variants have been isolated from both tumor and normal tissues. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000077044	 This gene encodes a cytoplasmic enzyme that phosphorylates diacylglycerol to produce phosphatidic acid. Diacylglycerol and phosphatidic acid are two lipids that act as second messengers in signaling cascades. Their cellular concentrations are regulated by the encoded protein, and so it is thought to play an important role in cellular signal transduction. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136267	 Diacylglycerol kinases (DGKs) are regulators of the intracellular concentration of the second messenger diacylglycerol (DAG) and thus play a key role in cellular processes. Nine mammalian isotypes have been identified, which are encoded by separate genes. Mammalian DGK isozymes contain a conserved catalytic (kinase) domain and a cysteine-rich domain (CRD). The protein encoded by this gene is a diacylglycerol kinase, beta isotype. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114646	 The protein encoded by this gene is a proteoglycan that may function as a neural growth and differentiation factor. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000036828	 The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled receptor that is expressed in the parathyroid hormone (PTH)-producing chief cells of the parathyroid gland, and the cells lining the kidney tubule. It senses small changes in circulating calcium concentration and couples this information to intracellular signaling pathways that modify PTH secretion or renal cation handling, thus this protein plays an essential role in maintaining mineral ion homeostasis. Mutations in this gene cause familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia, familial, isolated hypoparathyroidism, and neonatal severe primary hyperparathyroidism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136104	 RNase H2 is composed of a single catalytic subunit (A) and two non-catalytic subunits (B and C) and specifically degrades the RNA of RNA:DNA hybrids. The protein encoded by this gene is the non-catalytic B subunit of RNase H2, which is thought to play a role in DNA replication. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Defects in this gene are a cause of Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome type 2 (AGS2). [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000159363	 This gene encodes a member of the P5 subfamily of ATPases which transports inorganic cations as well as other substrates. Mutations in this gene are associated with Kufor-Rakeb syndrome (KRS), also referred to as Parkinson disease 9. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000214140	 This gene is predominantly expressed in the retina, and mutations in this gene are the cause of autosomal recessive retinal degeneration in both humans and dogs. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000180228	 This gene encodes a protein kinase activated by double-stranded RNA which mediates the effects of interferon in response to viral infection. Mutations in this gene have been associated with dystonia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000183628	 DiGeorge syndrome, and more widely, the CATCH 22 syndrome, are associated with microdeletions in chromosomal region 22q11.2. The product of this gene shares homology with the Drosophila melanogaster gonadal protein, which participates in gonadal and germ cell development, and with the gamma-1 subunit of human laminin. This gene is a candidate for involvement in DiGeorge syndrome pathology and in schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000087053	 This gene is a member of the myotubularin family of phosphoinositide lipid phosphatases. The encoded protein possesses phosphatase activity towards phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate and phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate. Mutations in this gene are a cause of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4B, an autosomal recessive demyelinating neuropathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000116704	 Glycosylation of cellular glycoconjugates occurs in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi compartment, and requires transport of nucleotide sugars from the cytosol into the lumen of the ER and Golgi by specific transporters. The protein encoded by this gene resides in the ER, and transports both UDP-glucuronic acid (UDP-GlcA) and UDP-N-acetylgalactosamine (UDP-GalNAc) from the cytoplasm to the ER lumen. It may participate in glucuronidation and/or chondroitin sulfate biosynthesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with Schneckenbecken dysplasia.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000163817	 Transport of small hydrophilic substances across cell membranes is mediated by substrate-specific transporter proteins which have been classified into several families of related genes. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the subgroup of transporter with unidentified substrates within the Na+ and Cl- coupled transporter family. This gene is expressed in kidney, and its alternative splicing generates 2 transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123329	 This gene encodes a member of the Rho-GAP family of GTPase activating proteins. The protein has substantial GAP activity towards several Rho-family GTPases in vitro, converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state. It is implicated in regulating adhesion of hematopoietic cells to the extracellular matrix. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000127922	 The product of this gene has been localized within the split hand/split foot malformation locus SHFM1 at chromosome 7. It has been proposed to be a candidate gene for the autosomal dominant form of the heterogeneous limb developmental disorder split hand/split foot malformation type 1. In addition, it has been shown to directly interact with BRCA2. It also may play a role in the completion of the cell cycle. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184937	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that contains four zinc-finger motifs at the C-terminus and a proline/glutamine-rich DNA-binding domain at the N-terminus. It has an essential role in the normal development of the urogenital system, and it is mutated in a small subset of patients with Wilm's tumors. This gene exhibits complex tissue-specific and polymorphic imprinting pattern, with biallelic, and monoallelic expression from the maternal and paternal alleles in different tissues. Multiple transcript variants have been described. In several variants, there is evidence for the use of a non-AUG (CUG) translation initiation site upstream of and in-frame with the first AUG. Authors of PMID:7926762 also provide evidence that WT1 mRNA undergoes RNA editing in human and rat, and that this process is tissue-restricted and developmentally regulated. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000102312	 This gene belongs to the evolutionarily conserved porcupine (Porc) gene family. Genes of the Porc family encode endoplasmic reticulum proteins with multiple transmembrane domains. Porcupine proteins are involved in the processing of Wnt (wingless and int homologue) proteins. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184831	 This gene is a member of the apolipoprotein family. Members of this protein family are involved in the transport and metabolism of lipids. The encoded protein associates with HDL, LDL and VLDL lipoproteins and is characterized by chondroitin-sulfate glycosylation. This protein may be involved in preventing lipid accumulation in the myocardium in obese and diabetic patients. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 3, 4, 5, 12 and 16.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000088970	 The protein encoded by this gene localizes to centrosomes, strengthening and stabilizing the pericentriolar region prior to spindle formation. The encoded protein usually remains with the mother centrosome after centrosomal duplication. Sevral transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000132840	 Homocysteine is a sulfur-containing amino acid that plays a crucial role in methylation reactions. Transfer of the methyl group from betaine to homocysteine creates methionine, which donates the methyl group to methylate DNA, proteins, lipids, and other intracellular metabolites. The protein encoded by this gene is one of two methyl transferases that can catalyze the transfer of the methyl group from betaine to homocysteine. Anomalies in homocysteine metabolism have been implicated in disorders ranging from vascular disease to neural tube birth defects such as spina bifida. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000180644	 The protein encoded by this gene has structural and functional similarities to complement component 9 (C9). Like C9, this protein creates transmembrane tubules and is capable of lysing non-specifically a variety of target cells. This protein is one of the main cytolytic proteins of cytolytic granules, and it is known to be a key effector molecule for T-cell- and natural killer-cell-mediated cytolysis. Defects in this gene cause familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis type 2 (HPLH2), a rare and lethal autosomal recessive disorder of early childhood. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134602	 The product of this gene is a member of the GCK group III family of kinases, which are a subset of the Ste20-like kinases. The encoded protein contains an amino-terminal kinase domain, and a carboxy-terminal regulatory domain that mediates homodimerization. The protein kinase localizes to the Golgi apparatus and is specifically activated by binding to the Golgi matrix protein GM130. It is also cleaved by caspase-3 in vitro, and may function in the apoptotic pathway. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000243364	 This gene encodes a member of the ephrin (EPH) family. The ephrins and EPH-related receptors comprise the largest subfamily of receptor protein-tyrosine kinases and have been implicated in mediating developmental events, especially in the nervous system and in erythropoiesis. Based on their structures and sequence relationships, ephrins are divided into the ephrin-A (EFNA) class, which are anchored to the membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol linkage, and the ephrin-B (EFNB) class, which are transmembrane proteins. This gene encodes an EFNA class ephrin. Three transcript variants that encode distinct proteins have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171885	 This gene encodes a member of the aquaporin family of intrinsic membrane proteins that function as water-selective channels in the plasma membranes of many cells. The encoded protein is the predominant aquaporin found in brain. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000129221	 Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) accounts for at least 5% of all inherited retinal disease and is the most severe inherited retinopathy with the earliest age of onset. Individuals affected with LCA are diagnosed at birth or in the first few months of life with severely impaired vision or blindness, nystagmus and an abnormal or flat electroretinogram. The photoreceptor/pineal -expressed gene, AIPL1, encoding aryl-hydrocarbon interacting protein-like 1, was mapped within the LCA4 candidate region. The protein contains three tetratricopeptide motifs, consistent with nuclear transport or chaperone activity. AIPL1 mutations may cause approximately 20% of recessive LCA. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140939	 This gene encodes an anti-apoptotic protein that has been shown to down-regulate the enzyme activities of caspase 2, caspase 8 and tumor protein p53. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000162892	 This gene encodes a member of the IL10 family of cytokines. It was identified as a gene induced during terminal differentiation in melanoma cells. The protein encoded by this gene can induce apoptosis selectively in various cancer cells. Overexpression of this gene leads to elevated expression of several GADD family genes, which correlates with the induction of apoptosis. The phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK7/P38), and heat shock 27kDa protein 1 (HSPB2/HSP27) are found to be induced by this gene in melanoma cells, but not in normal immortal melanocytes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148290	 This gene encodes a protein localized to the inner mitochondrial membrane and thought to be involved in the biogenesis of the cytochrome c oxidase complex. The protein is a member of the SURF1 family, which includes the related yeast protein SHY1 and rickettsial protein RP733. The gene is located in the surfeit gene cluster, a group of very tightly linked genes that do not share sequence similarity, where it shares a bidirectional promoter with SURF2 on the opposite strand. Defects in this gene are a cause of Leigh syndrome, a severe neurological disorder that is commonly associated with systemic cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165416	 This gene is homologous to the yeast gene SGT1, which encodes a protein involved in kinetochore function and required for the G1/S and G2/M transitions. Complementation studies suggest that the human protein has similar functions. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000175334	 The protein encoded by this gene was first identified by its ability to protect retroviruses from intramolecular integration and therefore promote intermolecular integration into the host cell genome. The protein forms a homodimer which localizes to both the nucleus and cytoplasm and is specifically associated with chromosomes during mitosis. This protein binds to double stranded DNA in a non-specific manner and also binds to LEM-domain containing proteins of the nuclear envelope. This protein is thought to facilitate nuclear reassembly by binding with both DNA and inner nuclear membrane proteins and thereby recruit chromatin to the nuclear periphery. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000138293	 This gene encodes an androgen receptor coactivator. The encoded protein interacts with the androgen receptor in a ligand-dependent manner to enhance its transcriptional activity. Chromosomal translocations between this gene and the ret tyrosine kinase gene, also located on chromosome 10, have been associated with papillary thyroid carcinoma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. Pseudogenes are present on chromosomes 4, 5, 10, and 14. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000251192	 This gene encodes a zinc finger protein with an N-terminal Kruppel-associated box-containing (KRAB) domain and 11 Kruppel-type C2H2 zinc finger domains. Like other zinc finger proteins, this gene may function as a transcription factor. This gene resides on an area of chromosome X that has been implicated in nonsyndromic X-linked mental retardation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000122507	 This gene is downregulated by parathyroid hormone in osteoblastic cells, and therefore, is thought to be involved in parathyroid hormone action in bones. The exact function of this gene has not yet been determined. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000142405	 This gene encodes a member of the CATERPILLER family of cytoplasmic proteins. The encoded protein, which contains an N-terminal pyrin domain, a NACHT domain, a NACHT-associated domain, and a C-terminus leucine-rich repeat region, functions as an attenuating factor of inflammation by suppressing inflammatory responses in activated monocytes. Mutations in this gene cause familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome type 2. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000157601	 In mouse, the interferon-inducible Mx protein is responsible for a specific antiviral state against influenza virus infection. The protein encoded by this gene is similar to the mouse protein as determined by its antigenic relatedness, induction conditions, physicochemical properties, and amino acid analysis. This cytoplasmic protein is a member of both the dynamin family and the family of large GTPases. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000009830	 The protein encoded by this gene is an O-mannosyltransferase that requires interaction with the product of the POMT1 gene for enzymatic function. The encoded protein is found in the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum. Defects in this gene are a cause of Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS).[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000120729	 This gene encodes a cystoskeletal protein which plays a significant role in the stability of thin filaments during muscle contraction. This protein binds F-actin, crosslinks actin filaments, and prevents latrunculin A-induced filament disassembly. Mutations in this gene have been associated with limb-girdle muscular dystrophy and myofibrillar myopathies. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000129003	 This gene encodes a member of the vacuolar protein sorting-associated 13 gene family. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000128191	 This gene encodes a subunit of the microprocessor complex which mediates the biogenesis of microRNAs from the primary microRNA transcript. The encoded protein is a double-stranded RNA binding protein that functions as the non-catalytic subunit of the microprocessor complex. This protein is required for binding the double-stranded RNA substrate and facilitates cleavage of the RNA by the ribonuclease III protein, Drosha. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000164062	  This gene encodes the enzyme acylpeptide hydrolase, which catalyzes the hydrolysis of the terminal acetylated amino acid preferentially from small acetylated peptides. The acetyl amino acid formed by this hydrolase is further processed to acetate and a free amino acid by an aminoacylase. This gene is located within the same region of chromosome 3 (3p21) as the aminoacylase gene, and deletions at this locus are also associated with a decrease in aminoacylase activity. The acylpeptide hydrolase is a homotetrameric protein of 300 kDa with each subunit consisting of 732 amino acid residues. It can play an important role in destroying oxidatively damaged proteins in living cells. Deletions of this gene locus are found in various types of carcinomas, including small cell lung carcinoma and renal cell carcinoma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000068885	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of the intraflagellar transport complex B and is necessary for the function of motile and sensory cilia. Defects in this gene are a cause of asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy 2 (ATD2). Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000172426	 This gene encodes a protein thought to be a component of the radial spoke head in motile cilia and flagella. Mutations in this gene are associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia 12. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000165246	 This gene encodes a type I membrane protein that belongs to the family of neuroligins, which are cell adhesion molecules present at the postsynaptic side of the synapse, and may be essential for the formation of functional synapses. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000171310	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfotransferase 2 family. It is localized to the golgi membrane, and catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 4 of the N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residue of chondroitin. Chondroitin sulfate constitutes the predominant proteoglycan present in cartilage, and is distributed on the surfaces of many cells and extracellular matrices. A chromosomal translocation involving this gene and IgH, t(12;14)(q23;q32), has been reported in a patient with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000169403	 This gene encodes a seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor for platelet-activating factor (PAF) that localizes to lipid rafts and/or caveolae in the cell membrane. PAF (1-0-alkyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphorylcholine) is a phospholipid that plays a significant role in oncogenic transformation, tumor growth, angiogenesis, metastasis, and pro-inflammatory processes. Binding of PAF to the PAF-receptor (PAFR) stimulates numerous signal transduction pathways including phospholipase C, D, A2, mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), and the phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Following PAFR activation, cells become rapidly desensitized and this refractory state is dependent on PAFR phosphorylation, internalization, and down-regulation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000131697	 This gene encodes a protein involved in renal tubular development and function. This protein interacts with nephrocystin, and belongs to a multifunctional complex that is localized to actin- and microtubule-based structures. Mutations in this gene are associated with nephronophthisis type 4, a renal disease, and with Senior-Loken syndrome type 4, a combination of nephronophthisis and retinitis pigmentosa. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000169855	 Bilateral symmetric nervous systems have special midline structures that establish a partition between the two mirror image halves. Some axons project toward and across the midline in response to long-range chemoattractants emanating from the midline. The product of this gene is a member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily and encodes an integral membrane protein that functions in axon guidance and neuronal precursor cell migration. This receptor is activated by SLIT-family proteins, resulting in a repulsive effect on glioma cell guidance in the developing brain. A related gene is located at an adjacent region on chromosome 3. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000155380	 The protein encoded by this gene is a proton-linked monocarboxylate transporter that catalyzes the movement of many monocarboxylates, such as lactate and pyruvate, across the plasma membrane. Mutations in this gene are associated with erythrocyte lactate transporter defect. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000173226	 This gene encodes a nephrocystin protein that interacts with calmodulin and the retinitis pigmentosa GTPase regulator protein. The encoded protein has a central coiled-coil region and two calmodulin-binding IQ domains. It is localized to the primary cilia of renal epithelial cells and connecting cilia of photoreceptor cells. The protein is thought to play a role in ciliary function. Defects in this gene result in Senior-Loken syndrome type 5. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000152977	 This gene encodes a member of the ZIC family of C2H2-type zinc finger proteins. Members of this family are important during development. Aberrant expression of this gene is seen in medulloblastoma, a childhood brain tumor. This gene is closely linked to the gene encoding zinc finger protein of the cerebellum 4, a related family member on chromosome 3. This gene encodes a transcription factor that can bind and transactivate the apolipoprotein E gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000142319	 This gene encodes a dopamine transporter which is a member of the sodium- and chloride-dependent neurotransmitter transporter family. The 3' UTR of this gene contains a 40 bp tandem repeat, referred to as a variable number tandem repeat or VNTR, which can be present in 3 to 11 copies. Variation in the number of repeats is associated with idiopathic epilepsy, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, dependence on alcohol and cocaine, susceptibility to Parkinson disease and protection against nicotine dependence.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000175325	 This gene encodes a paired-like homeodomain transcription factor in the developing pituitary gland. Expression occurs prior to and is required for expression of pou domain transcription factor 1, which is responsible for pituitary development and hormone expression. Mutations in this gene have been associated with combined pituitary hormone deficiency-2 as well as deficiencies in luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, growth hormone, prolactin, and thyroid-stimulating hormone. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000105810	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK) family. CDK family members are highly similar to the gene products of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cdc28, and Schizosaccharomyces pombe cdc2, and are known to be important regulators of cell cycle progression. This kinase is a catalytic subunit of the protein kinase complex that is important for cell cycle G1 phase progression and G1/S transition. The activity of this kinase first appears in mid-G1 phase, which is controlled by the regulatory subunits including D-type cyclins and members of INK4 family of CDK inhibitors. This kinase, as well as CDK4, has been shown to phosphorylate, and thus regulate the activity of, tumor suppressor protein Rb. Expression of this gene is up-regulated in some types of cancer. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000112977	 This gene encodes a basic, proline-rich, 15-kD protein. The protein acts as a positive mediator of programmed cell death that is induced by interferon-gamma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187498	 This gene encodes the major type IV alpha collagen chain of basement membranes. Like the other members of the type IV collagen gene family, this gene is organized in a head-to-head conformation with another type IV collagen gene so that each gene pair shares a common promoter. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160213	 The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and kininogens. This gene encodes a stefin that functions as an intracellular thiol protease inhibitor. The protein is able to form a dimer stabilized by noncovalent forces, inhibiting papain and cathepsins l, h and b. The protein is thought to play a role in protecting against the proteases leaking from lysosomes. Evidence indicates that mutations in this gene are responsible for the primary defects in patients with progressive myoclonic epilepsy (EPM1). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130707	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the penultimate step of the arginine biosynthetic pathway. There are approximately 10 to 14 copies of this gene including the pseudogenes scattered across the human genome, among which the one located on chromosome 9 appears to be the only functional gene for argininosuccinate synthetase. Mutations in the chromosome 9 copy of this gene cause citrullinemia. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000137731	 This gene encodes a member of the FXYD family of transmembrane proteins. This particular protein encodes the sodium/potassium-transporting ATPase subunit gamma. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Renal Hypomagnesemia-2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. Read-through transcripts have been observed between this locus and the upstream FXYD domain-containing ion transport regulator 6 (FXYD6, GeneID 53826) locus.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000109667	 This gene encodes a member of the SLC2A facilitative glucose transporter family. Members of this family play a significant role in maintaining glucose homeostasis. The encoded protein may play a role in the development and survival of chondrocytes in cartilage matrices. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000107796	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the actin family of proteins, which are highly conserved proteins that play a role in cell motility, structure and integrity. Alpha, beta and gamma actin isoforms have been identified, with alpha actins being a major constituent of the contractile apparatus, while beta and gamma actins are involved in the regulation of cell motility. This actin is an alpha actin that is found in skeletal muscle. Defects in this gene cause aortic aneurysm familial thoracic type 6. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000171456	 This gene is similar to the Drosophila additional sex combs gene, which encodes a chromatin-binding protein required for normal determination of segment identity in the developing embryo. The protein is a member of the Polycomb group of proteins, which are necessary for the maintenance of stable repression of homeotic and other loci. The protein is thought to disrupt chromatin in localized areas, enhancing transcription of certain genes while repressing the transcription of other genes. The protein encoded by this gene functions as a ligand-dependent co-activator for retinoic acid receptor in cooperation with nuclear receptor coactivator 1. Mutations in this gene are associated with myelodysplastic syndromes and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000022355	 This gene encodes a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor. GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. GABA-A receptors are pentameric, consisting of proteins from several subunit classes: alpha, beta, gamma, delta and rho. Mutations in this gene cause juvenile myoclonic epilepsy and childhood absence epilepsy type 4. Multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196664	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans and share structural and functional similarities. They recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that are expressed on infectious agents, and mediate the production of cytokines necessary for the development of effective immunity. The various TLRs exhibit different patterns of expression. This gene is predominantly expressed in lung, placenta, and spleen, and lies in close proximity to another family member, TLR8, on chromosome X. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169188	 Apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) sites occur frequently in DNA molecules by spontaneous hydrolysis, by DNA damaging agents or by DNA glycosylases that remove specific abnormal bases. AP sites are pre-mutagenic lesions that can prevent normal DNA replication so the cell contains systems to identify and repair such sites. Class II AP endonucleases cleave the phosphodiester backbone 5' to the AP site. This gene encodes a protein shown to have a weak class II AP endonuclease activity. Most of the encoded protein is located in the nucleus but some is also present in mitochondria. This protein may play an important role in both nuclear and mitochondrial base excision repair. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]. 
ENSG00000125354	 This gene is a member of the septin family of GTPases. Members of this family are required for cytokinesis. One version of pediatric acute myeloid leukemia is the result of a reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 11 and X, with the breakpoint associated with the genes encoding the mixed-lineage leukemia and septin 2 proteins. This gene encodes four transcript variants encoding three distinct isoforms. An additional transcript variant has been identified, but its biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000005302	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein that is similar to the product of the Drosophila male-specific lethal-3 gene. The Drosophila protein plays a critical role in a dosage-compensation pathway, which equalizes X-linked gene expression in males and females. Thus, the human protein is thought to play a similar function in chromatin remodeling and transcriptional regulation, and it has been found as part of a complex that is responsible for histone H4 lysine-16 acetylation. This gene can undergo X inactivation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 2, 7 and 8. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000027869	 This gene encodes an adaptor protein thought to function in T-cell signal transduction. A related protein in mouse is responsible for the activation of lymphocyte-specific protein-tyrosine kinase and functions in downstream signaling. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000123131	  The protein encoded by this gene is an antioxidant enzyme and belongs to the peroxiredoxin family. The protein is localized to the cytoplasm. Peroxidases of the peroxiredoxin family reduce hydrogen peroxide and alkyl hydroperoxides to water and alcohol with the use of reducing equivalents derived from thiol-containing donor molecules. This protein has been found to play a regulatory role in the activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165675	 The protein encoded by this gene is a growth-related cell surface protein. It was identifed because it reacts with the monoclonal antibody KI in cells, such as the ovarian carcinoma line OVCAR-3, also expressing the CAKI surface glycoprotein. The encoded protein has two enzymatic activities: catalysis of hydroquinone or NADH oxidation, and protein disulfide interchange. The two activities alternate with a period length of about 24 minutes. The encoded protein also displays prion-like properties. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000179455	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a RING (C3HC4) zinc finger motif and several C3H zinc finger motifs. This gene is intronless and imprinted, with expression only from the paternal allele. Disruption of the imprinting at this locus may contribute to Prader-Willi syndrome. An antisense RNA of unknown function has been found overlapping this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000068305	 The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA-binding transcription factor that activates many muscle-specific, growth factor-induced, and stress-induced genes. The encoded protein can act as a homodimer or as a heterodimer and is involved in several cellular processes, including muscle development, neuronal differentiation, cell growth control, and apoptosis. Defects in this gene could be a cause of autosomal dominant coronary artery disease 1 with myocardial infarction (ADCAD1). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000178573	 The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA-binding, leucine zipper-containing transcription factor that acts as a homodimer or as a heterodimer. Depending on the binding site and binding partner, the encoded protein can be a transcriptional activator or repressor. This protein plays a role in the regulation of several cellular processes, including embryonic lens fiber cell development, increased T-cell susceptibility to apoptosis, and chondrocyte terminal differentiation. Defects in this gene are a cause of juvenile-onset pulverulent cataract as well as congenital cerulean cataract 4 (CCA4). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000127554	 The hepatotrophic factor designated augmenter of liver regeneration (ALR) is thought to be one of the factors responsible for the extraordinary regenerative capacity of mammalian liver. It has also been called hepatic regenerative stimulation substance (HSS). The gene resides on chromosome 16 in the interval containing the locus for polycystic kidney disease (PKD1). The putative gene product is 42% similar to the scERV1 protein of yeast. The yeast scERV1 gene had been found to be essential for oxidative phosphorylation, the maintenance of mitochondrial genomes, and the cell division cycle. The human gene is both the structural and functional homolog of the yeast scERV1 gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167744	 This gene is a member of a family of neurotrophic factors, neurotrophins, that control survival and differentiation of mammalian neurons. The expression of this gene is ubiquitous and less influenced by environmental signals. While knock-outs of other neurotrophins including nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and neurotrophin 3  prove lethal during early postnatal development, NTF5-deficient mice only show minor cellular deficits and develop normally to adulthood. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000026297	 This ribonuclease gene is a novel member of the Rh/T2/S-glycoprotein class of extracellular ribonucleases. It is a single copy gene that maps to 6q27, a region associated with human malignancies and chromosomal rearrangement. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178952	 This gene encodes a protein which participates in protein translation in mitochondria. Mutations in this gene have been associated with combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency resulting in lactic acidosis and fatal encephalopathy. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 17. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000181830	 This gene encodes a GDP-fucose transporter that is found in the Golgi apparatus. Mutations in this gene result in congenital disorder of glycosylation type IIc. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000111669	 This gene encodes an enzyme, consisting of two identical proteins, which catalyzes the isomerization of glyceraldehydes 3-phosphate (G3P) and dihydroxy-acetone phosphate (DHAP) in glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with triosephosphate isomerase deficiency. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1, 4, 6 and 7. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000102349	 This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the Sp/KLF family of transcription factors. Members of this family contain a C-terminal DNA-binding domain with three Kruppel-like zinc fingers. The encoded protein is thought to play an important role in the regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition, a process which occurs normally during development but also during metastasis. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 16. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000213619	 This gene encodes one of the iron-sulfur protein (IP) components of mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I). Mutations in this gene are associated with Leigh syndrome resulting from mitochondrial complex I deficiency.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000129167	 This gene encodes a member of the aromatic amino acid hydroxylase family. The encoded protein catalyzes the first and rate limiting step in the biosynthesis of serotonin, an important hormone and neurotransmitter. Mutations in this gene have been associated with an elevated risk for a variety of diseases and disorders, including schizophrenia, somatic anxiety, anger-related traits, bipolar disorder, suicidal behavior, addictions, and others.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000111319	 Nonvoltage-gated, amiloride-sensitive, sodium channels control fluid and electrolyte transport across epithelia in many organs. These channels are heteromeric complexes consisting of 3 subunits: alpha, beta, and gamma. This gene encodes the alpha subunit, and mutations in this gene have been associated with pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 (PHA1), a rare salt wasting disease resulting from target organ unresponsiveness to mineralocorticoids. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000136156	 Amyloid precursor proteins are processed by beta-secretase and gamma-secretase to produce beta-amyloid peptides which form the characteristic plaques of Alzheimer disease. This gene encodes a transmembrane protein which is processed at the C-terminus by furin or furin-like proteases to produce a small secreted peptide which inhibits the deposition of beta-amyloid. Mutations which result in extension of the C-terminal end of the encoded protein, thereby increasing the size of the secreted peptide, are associated with two neurogenerative diseases, familial British dementia and familial Danish dementia. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000176920	 The protein encoded by this gene is a Golgi stack membrane protein that is involved in the creation of a precursor of the H antigen, which is required for the final step in the soluble A and B antigen synthesis pathway. This gene is one of two encoding the galactoside 2-L-fucosyltransferase enzyme. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the SE*01.01.01 allele. 
ENSG00000175283	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the CTP-mediated phosphorylation of dolichol, and is involved in the synthesis of Dol-P-Man, which is an essential glycosyl carrier lipid for C- and O-mannosylation, N- and O-linked glycosylation of proteins, and for the biosynthesis of glycosyl phosphatidylinositol anchors in endoplasmic reticulum. Mutations in this gene are associated with dolichol kinase deficiency.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000164946	 This gene encodes a basement membrane protein that may play a role in craniofacial and renal development. Mutations in this gene have been associated with bifid nose with or without anorectal and renal anomalies. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. PubMed ID 19940113 describes one such variant that initiates transcription within a distinct, internal exon; the resulting shorter isoform (named Toll-like/interleukin-1 receptor regulator, TILRR) is suggested to be a co-receptor of the interleukin 1 receptor family and may regulate receptor function and Toll-like receptor/interleukin 1 receptor signal transduction, contributing to the control of inflammatory response activation. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000107099	 This gene encodes a member of the DOCK180 family of guanine nucleotide exchange factors. Guanine nucleotide exchange factors interact with Rho GTPases and are components of intracellular signaling networks. Mutations in this gene result in the autosomal recessive form of the hyper-IgE syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000152700	 The protein encoded by this gene is a small GTPase that acts as a homodimer. The encoded protein is activated by the guanine nucleotide exchange factor PREB and is involved in protein transport from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi. This protein is part of the COPII coat complex. Defects in this gene are a cause of chylomicron retention disease (CMRD), also known as Anderson disease (ANDD). Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000119912	 This gene encodes a zinc metallopeptidase that degrades intracellular insulin, and thereby terminates insulins activity, as well as participating in intercellular peptide signalling by degrading diverse peptides such as glucagon, amylin, bradykinin, and kallidin. The preferential affinity of this enzyme for insulin results in insulin-mediated inhibition of the degradation of other peptides such as beta-amyloid. Deficiencies in this protein's function are associated with Alzheimer's disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus but mutations in this gene have not been shown to be causitive for these diseases. This protein localizes primarily to the cytoplasm but in some cell types localizes to the extracellular space, cell membrane, peroxisome, and mitochondrion. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional transcript variants have been described but have not been experimentally verified.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000102468	 This gene encodes one of the receptors for serotonin, a neurotransmitter with many roles. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to schizophrenia and obsessive-compulsive disorder, and are also associated with response to the antidepressant citalopram in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). MDD patients who also have a mutation in intron 2 of this gene show a significantly reduced response to citalopram as this antidepressant downregulates expression of this gene. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000072310	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that binds to the sterol regulatory element-1 (SRE1), which is a decamer flanking the low density lipoprotein receptor gene and some genes involved in sterol biosynthesis. The protein is synthesized as a precursor that is attached to the nuclear membrane and endoplasmic reticulum. Following cleavage, the mature protein translocates to the nucleus and activates transcription by binding to the SRE1. Sterols inhibit the cleavage of the precursor, and the mature nuclear form is rapidly catabolized, thereby reducing transcription. The protein is a member of the basic helix-loop-helix-leucine zipper (bHLH-Zip) transcription factor family. This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000226979	 The encoded protein, a member of the tumor necrosis factor family, is a cytokine produced by lymphocytes. The protein is highly inducible, secreted, and forms heterotrimers with lymphotoxin-beta which anchor lymphotoxin-alpha to the cell surface. This protein also mediates a large variety of inflammatory, immunostimulatory, and antiviral responses, is involved in the formation of secondary lymphoid organs during development and plays a role in apoptosis. Genetic variations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to leprosy type 4, myocardial infarction, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and psoriatic arthritis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000130821	 The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane protein whose function is to transport creatine into and out of cells. Defects in this gene can result in X-linked creatine deficiency syndrome. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000122122	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a Src homology-3 (SH3) domain and a sterile alpha motif (SAM), both of which are found in proteins involved in cell signaling. This protein may function as a signaling adapter protein in lymphocytes.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000141756	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the FKBP-type peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase (PPIase) family. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and acts as a molecular chaperone. Alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms have been reported, but their biological validity has not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000110195	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the folate receptor family. Members of this gene family bind folic acid and its reduced derivatives, and transport 5-methyltetrahydrofolate into cells. This gene product is a secreted protein that either anchors to membranes via a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol linkage or exists in a soluble form. Mutations in this gene have been associated with neurodegeneration due to cerebral folate transport deficiency. Due to the presence of two promoters, multiple transcription start sites, and alternative splicing, multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000111361	 This gene encodes one of five subunits of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2B (EIF2B), a GTP exchange factor for eukaryotic initiation factor 2 and an essential regulator for protein synthesis. Mutations in this gene and the genes encoding other EIF2B subunits have been associated with leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000135766	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the post-translational formation of 4-hydroxyproline in hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) alpha proteins. HIF is a transcriptional complex that plays a central role in mammalian oxygen homeostasis. This protein functions as a cellular oxygen sensor, and under normal oxygen concentration, modification by prolyl hydroxylation is a key regulatory event that targets HIF subunits for proteasomal destruction via the von Hippel-Lindau ubiquitylation complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with erythrocytosis familial type 3 (ECYT3). [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000070785	 The protein encoded by this gene is one of the subunits of initiation factor eIF2B, which catalyzes the exchange of eukaryotic initiation factor 2-bound GDP for GTP. It has also been found to function as a cofactor of hepatitis C virus internal ribosome entry site-mediated translation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with leukodystrophy with vanishing white matter. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000136872	 Fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase (EC 4.1.2.13) is a tetrameric glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate. Vertebrates have 3 aldolase isozymes which are distinguished by their electrophoretic and catalytic properties. Differences indicate that aldolases A, B, and C are distinct proteins, the products of a family of related 'housekeeping' genes exhibiting developmentally regulated expression of the different isozymes. The developing embryo produces aldolase A, which is produced in even greater amounts in adult muscle where it can be as much as 5% of total cellular protein. In adult liver, kidney and intestine, aldolase A expression is repressed and aldolase B is produced. In brain and other nervous tissue, aldolase A and C are expressed about equally. There is a high degree of homology between aldolase A and C. Defects in ALDOB cause hereditary fructose intolerance. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000165699	 This gene encodes a growth inhibitory protein thought to play a role in the stabilization of tuberin. Mutations in this gene have been associated with tuberous sclerosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000125962	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AL035551.6. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000006468	 This gene encodes a member of the ETS (E twenty-six) family of transcription factors. The ETS proteins regulate many target genes that modulate biological processes like cell growth, angiogenesis, migration, proliferation and differentiation. All ETS proteins contain an ETS DNA-binding domain that binds to DNA sequences containing the consensus 5'-CGGA[AT]-3'. The protein encoded by this gene contains a conserved short acidic transactivation domain (TAD) in the N-terminal region, in addition to the ETS DNA-binding domain in the C-terminal region. This gene is involved in chromosomal translocations, which result in multiple fusion proteins including EWS-ETV1 in Erwing sarcoma and at least 10 ETV1 partners (see PMID: 19657377, Table 1) in prostate cancer. In addition to chromosomal rearrangement, this gene is overexpressed in prostate cancer, melanoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000206262	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AC092947.12 and AC130416.4. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000173221	 This gene encodes a member of the glutaredoxin family. The encoded protein is a cytoplasmic enzyme catalyzing the reversible reduction of glutathione-protein mixed disulfides. This enzyme highly contributes to the antioxidant defense system. It is crucial for several signalling pathways by controlling the S-glutathionylation status of signalling mediators. It is involved in beta-amyloid toxicity and Alzheimer's disease. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000126934	 The protein encoded by this gene is a dual specificity protein kinase that belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family. This kinase is known to play a critical role in mitogen growth factor signal transduction. It phosphorylates and thus activates MAPK1/ERK2 and MAPK2/ERK3. The activation of this kinase itself is dependent on the Ser/Thr phosphorylation by MAP kinase kinase kinases. Mutations in this gene cause cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome (CFC syndrome), a disease characterized by heart defects, mental retardation, and distinctive facial features similar to those found in Noonan syndrome. The inhibition or degradation of this kinase is also found to be involved in the pathogenesis of Yersinia and anthrax. A pseudogene, which is located on chromosome 7, has been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000239900	 Adenylsuccinate lyase is involved in both de novo synthesis of purines and formation of adenosine monophosphate from inosine monophosphate. It catalyzes two reactions in AMP biosynthesis: the removal of a fumarate from succinylaminoimidazole carboxamide (SAICA) ribotide to give aminoimidazole carboxamide ribotide (AICA) and removal of fumarate from adenylosuccinate to give AMP. Adenylosuccinase deficiency results in succinylpurinemic autism, psychomotor retardation, and , in some cases, growth retardation associated with muscle wasting and epilepsy. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188379	 This gene is a member of the alpha interferon gene cluster on chromosome 9. The encoded protein is a cytokine produced in response to viral infection. Use of the recombinant form of this protein has been shown to be effective in reducing the symptoms and duration of the common cold. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000122971	 This gene encodes a a tetrameric mitochondrial flavoprotein, which is a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family. This enzyme catalyzes the initial step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Short Chain Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000156427	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities, and are involved in a variety of biological processes, including embryonic development, cell growth, morphogenesis, tissue repair, tumor growth, and invasion. It has been shown in vitro that this protein is able to induce neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells. Studies of the similar proteins in mouse and chick suggested that this protein is a pleiotropic growth factor that stimulates proliferation in a number of tissues, most notably the liver and small intestine. Knockout studies of the similar gene in mice implied the role of this protein in regulating proliferation and differentiation of midline cerebellar structures. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000155659	 This gene encodes a v-set and immunoglobulin-domain containing protein that is structurally related to the B7 family of immune regulatory proteins. The encoded protein may be a negative regulator of T-cell responses. This protein is also a receptor for the complement component 3 fragments C3b and iC3b. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000173698	 This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family described as an epididymis-specific transmembrane protein. The encoded protein may be proteolytically processed as it contains a motif shown to be a protein scission motif in some members of this family (PMID: 11973329). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000140157	 This gene encodes a possible magnesium transporter. This gene is located adjacent to the imprinted domain in the Prader-Willi syndrome deletion region of chromosome 15. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 3, 7 and 21.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000187079	 This gene encodes a ubiquitous transcriptional enhancer factor that is a member of the TEA/ATTS domain family. This protein directs the transactivation of a wide variety of genes and, in placental cells, also acts as a transcriptional repressor. Mutations in this gene cause Sveinsson's chorioretinal atrophy. Additional transcript variants have been described but their full-length natures have not been experimentally verified. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000074803	 This gene encodes a kidney-specific sodium-potassium-chloride cotransporter that is expressed on the luminal membrane of renal epithelial cells of the thick ascending limb of Henle's loop and the macula densa. It plays a key role in concentrating urine and accounts for most of the NaCl resorption. It is sensitive to such diuretics as furosemide and bumetanide. Some Bartter-like syndromes result from defects in this gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional splice variants have been described but their biological validity in humans has not been experimentally proven.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000119689	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that belongs to the 2-oxoacid dehydrogenase family. This protein is one of the three components (the E2 component) of the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex that catalyzes the overall conversion of 2-oxoglutarate to succinyl-CoA and CO(2). Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000176890	 Thymidylate synthase catalyzes the methylation of deoxyuridylate to deoxythymidylate using 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate (methylene-THF) as a cofactor. This function maintains the dTMP (thymidine-5-prime monophosphate) pool critical for DNA replication and repair. The enzyme has been of interest as a target for cancer chemotherapeutic agents. It is considered to be the primary site of action for 5-fluorouracil, 5-fluoro-2-prime-deoxyuridine, and some folate analogs. Expression of this gene and that of a naturally occuring antisense transcript rTSalpha (GeneID:55556) vary inversely when cell-growth progresses from late-log to plateau phase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000153446	 This gene is expressed predominantly in the thyroid. Based on expression patterns similar to thyroid transcription factors and proteins, this gene may function in the development and function of the thyroid. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000172943	 The protein encoded by this gene is a histone lysine demethylase that preferentially acts on histones in the monomethyl or dimethyl states. The encoded protein requires Fe(2+) ion, 2-oxoglutarate, and oxygen for its catalytic activity. Defects in this gene are a cause of mental retardation syndromic X-linked Siderius type (MRXSSD). Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000083642	 This gene encodes a protein that interacts with the conserved protein complex termed cohesion. The cohesion complex holds together sister chromatids and facilitates accurate chromosome segregation during mitosis and meiosis. This protein is also a negative regulator of cell proliferation and may be a tumor-suppressor gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000239672	 This gene (NME1) was identified because of its reduced mRNA transcript levels in highly metastatic cells. Nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDK) exists as a hexamer composed of 'A' (encoded by this gene) and 'B' (encoded by NME2) isoforms. Mutations in this gene have been identified in aggressive neuroblastomas. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Co-transcription of this gene and the neighboring downstream gene (NME2) generates naturally-occurring transcripts (NME1-NME2), which encodes a fusion protein comprised of sequence sharing identity with each individual gene product. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175426	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family. The members of this family are proprotein convertases that process latent precursor proteins into their biologically active products. This encoded protein is a type I proinsulin-processing enzyme that plays a key role in regulating insulin biosynthesis. It is also known to cleave proopiomelanocortin, prorenin, proenkephalin, prodynorphin, prosomatostatin and progastrin. Mutations in this gene are thought to cause obesity. This encoded protein is associated with carcinoid tumors. Mutations in this gene have been associated with susceptibility to obesity and proprotein convertase 1/3 deficiency. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000153165	 This gene is located in a cluster of Ran-binding protein related genes on chromosome 2 which arose through duplication in primates. The encoded protein contains an N-terminal TPR (tetratricopeptide repeat) domain, two Ran-binding domains, and a C-terminal GRIP domain (golgin-97, RanBP2alpha, Imh1p and p230/golgin-245) domain. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000072110	 Alpha actinins belong to the spectrin gene superfamily which represents a diverse group of cytoskeletal proteins, including the alpha and beta spectrins and dystrophins. Alpha actinin is an actin-binding protein with multiple roles in different cell types. In nonmuscle cells, the cytoskeletal isoform is found along microfilament bundles and adherens-type junctions, where it is involved in binding actin to the membrane. In contrast, skeletal, cardiac, and smooth muscle isoforms are localized to the Z-disc and analogous dense bodies, where they help anchor the myofibrillar actin filaments. This gene encodes a nonmuscle, cytoskeletal, alpha actinin isoform and maps to the same site as the structurally similar erythroid beta spectrin gene. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175866	 The protein encoded by this gene has been identified as a brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor (BAI1)-binding protein. This adaptor protein links membrane bound G-proteins to cytoplasmic effector proteins. This protein functions as an insulin receptor tyrosine kinase substrate and suggests a role for insulin in the central nervous system. It also associates with a downstream effector of Rho small G proteins, which is associated with the formation of stress fibers and cytokinesis. This protein is involved in lamellipodia and filopodia formation in motile cells and may affect neuronal growth-cone guidance. This protein has also been identified as interacting with the dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy gene, which is associated with an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000171388	 This gene encodes a peptide that functions as an endogenous ligand for the G protein coupled receptor APJ. The encoded protein is synthesized as a prepropeptide that is processed into biologically active C-terminal fragments. The peptide fragments activate different tissue specific signaling pathways that regulate diverse biological functions including fluid homeostasis, cardiovascular function and insulin secretion. This protein also functions as a coreceptor for the human immunodeficiency virus 1.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000113645	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic phosphoprotein that interacts with PRKC-zeta and dynein light chain-1. Alleles of this gene have been found that enhance memory in some individuals. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000153574	 The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme, which catalyzes the reversible conversion between ribose-5-phosphate and ribulose-5-phosphate in the pentose-phosphate pathway. This gene is highly conserved in most organisms. The enzyme plays an essential role in the carbohydrate metabolism. Mutations in this gene cause ribose 5-phosphate isomerase deficiency. A pseudogene is found on chromosome 18. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000145819	 Interaction of a cell with the extracellular matrix triggers integrin cell surface receptors to begin signaling cascades that regulate the organization of the actin-cytoskeleton. One of the proteins involved in these cascades is focal adhesion kinase. The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase activating protein that binds to focal adhesion kinase and mediates the activity of the GTP binding proteins RhoA and Cdc42. Defects in this gene are a cause of juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000183943	 This gene encodes a serine threonine protein kinase that has similarity to the catalytic subunit of cyclic AMP dependent protein kinases. The encoded protein is developmentally regulated and may be involved in renal epithelial morphogenesis. This protein may also be involved in macrophage and granulocyte maturation. Abnormal recombination between this gene and a related pseudogene on chromosome Y is a frequent cause of sex reversal disorder in XX males and XY females. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes X, 15 and Y. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000141052	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein, which is expressed in heart, aorta, and in smooth muscle cell-containing tissues. It functions as a transcriptional co-activator of serum response factor (SRF) and modulates expression of cardiac and smooth muscle-specific SRF-target genes, and thus may play a crucial role in cardiogenesis and differentiation of the smooth muscle cell lineage. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000164362	 Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein polymerase that maintains telomere ends by addition of the telomere repeat TTAGGG. The enzyme consists of a protein component with reverse transcriptase activity, encoded by this gene, and an RNA component which serves as a template for the telomere repeat. Telomerase expression plays a role in cellular senescence, as it is normally repressed in postnatal somatic cells resulting in progressive shortening of telomeres. Deregulation of telomerase expression in somatic cells may be involved in oncogenesis. Studies in mouse suggest that telomerase also participates in chromosomal repair, since de novo synthesis of telomere repeats may occur at double-stranded breaks. Alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms of telomerase reverse transcriptase have been identified; the full-length sequence of some variants has not been determined. Alternative splicing at this locus is thought to be one mechanism of regulation of telomerase activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100299	 The protein encoded by this gene hydrolyzes cerebroside sulfate to cerebroside and sulfate. Defects in this gene lead to metachromatic leucodystrophy (MLD), a progressive demyelination disease which results in a variety of neurological symptoms and ultimately death. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000198626	 This gene encodes a ryanodine receptor found in cardiac muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum. The encoded protein is one of the components of a calcium channel, composed of a tetramer of the ryanodine receptor proteins and a tetramer of FK506 binding protein 1B proteins, that supplies calcium to cardiac muscle. Mutations in this gene are associated with stress-induced polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000086102	 MHC class II gene expression is controlled primarily at the transcriptional level by transcription factors that bind to the X and Y boxes, two highly conserved elements in the proximal promoter of MHC class II genes. The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional repressor capable of binding to the conserved X box motif of HLA-DRA and other MHC class II genes in vitro. The protein may play a role in regulating the duration of an inflammatory response by limiting the period in which class II MHC molecules are induced by IFN-gamma. Three alternative splice variants, each of which encodes a different isoform, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123838	 This gene encodes a member of a superfamily of proteins composed predominantly of tandemly arrayed short consensus repeats of approximately 60 amino acids. Along with a single, unique beta-chain, seven identical alpha-chains encoded by this gene assemble into the predominant isoform of C4b-binding protein, a multimeric protein that controls activation of the complement cascade through the classical pathway. The genes encoding both alpha and beta chains are located adjacent to each other on human chromosome 1 in the regulator of complement activation gene cluster. Two pseudogenes of this gene are also found in the cluster. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105483	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the caspase recruitment domain (CARD)-containing family of proteins, which are involved in pathways leading to activation of caspases or nuclear factor kappa-B (NFKB). This protein may be a component of the inflammasome, a protein complex that plays a role in the activation of proinflammatory caspases. It is thought that this protein acts as an adaptor molecule that negatively regulates NFKB activation, CASP1-dependent IL1B secretion, and apoptosis. Polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with a susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000142611	 The reciprocal translocation t(1;3)(p36;q21) occurs in a subset of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). This gene is located near the 1p36.3 breakpoint and has been shown to be specifically expressed in the t(1:3)(p36,q21)-positive MDS/AML. The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor and contains an N-terminal PR domain. The translocation results in the overexpression of a truncated version of this protein that lacks the PR domain, which may play an important role in the pathogenesis of MDS and AML. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108387	 This gene is a member of the septin family of nucleotide binding proteins, originally described in yeast as cell division cycle regulatory proteins. Septins are highly conserved in yeast, Drosophila, and mouse, and appear to regulate cytoskeletal organization. Disruption of septin function disturbs cytokinesis and results in large multinucleate or polyploid cells. This gene is highly expressed in brain and heart. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. One of the isoforms (known as ARTS) is distinct; it is localized to the mitochondria, and has a role in apoptosis and cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000082146	 This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase STE20 subfamily. One of the active site residues in the protein kinase domain of this protein is altered, and it is thus a pseudokinase. This protein is a component of a complex involved in the activation of serine/threonine kinase 11, a master kinase that regulates cell polarity and energy-generating metabolism. This complex regulates the relocation of this kinase from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, and it is essential for G1 cell cycle arrest mediated by this kinase. The protein encoded by this gene can also interact with the X chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein, and this interaction enhances the anti-apoptotic activity of this protein via the JNK1 signal transduction pathway. Two pseudogenes, located on chromosomes 1 and 7, have been found for this gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000120949	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor is expressed by activated, but not by resting, T and B cells. TRAF2 and TRAF5 can interact with this receptor, and mediate the signal transduction that leads to the activation of NF-kappaB. This receptor is a positive regulator of apoptosis, and also has been shown to limit the proliferative potential of autoreactive CD8 effector T cells and protect the body against autoimmunity. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198026	 The protein encoded by this gene enhances transcriptional activation by ligand-bound nuclear hormone receptors. However, it does this not by direct interaction with the receptor, but by direct interaction with the nuclear hormone receptor transcriptional coactivator NRC. The encoded protein may function by altering local chromatin structure. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000118217	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that activates target genes for the unfolded protein response (UPR) during endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Although it is a transcription factor, this protein is unusual in that it is synthesized as a transmembrane protein that is embedded in the ER. It functions as an ER stress sensor/transducer, and following ER stress-induced proteolysis, it functions as a nuclear transcription factor via a cis-acting ER stress response element (ERSE) that is present in the promoters of genes encoding ER chaperones. This protein has been identified as a survival factor for quiescent but not proliferative squamous carcinoma cells. There have been conflicting reports about the association of polymorphisms in this gene with diabetes in different populations, but another polymorphism has been associated with increased plasma cholesterol levels. This gene is also thought to be a potential therapeutic target for cystic fibrosis. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000211452	 The protein encoded by this gene is a thiol-requiring propylthiouracil-sensitive oxidoreductase. It activates thyroid hormone by converting the prohormone thyroxine (T4) by outer ring deiodination (ORD) to bioactive 3,3',5-triiodothyronine (T3). It also degrades both hormones by inner ring deiodination (IRD). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Some, but not all, isoforms contain a selenocysteine (Sec) residue encoded by the UGA codon, which normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTR of Sec-containing genes have a common stem-loop structure, the sec insertion sequence (SECIS), which is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon rather than as a stop signal. Additional transcript variants have been described but are not supported by experimental evidence. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164366	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AC021087.5. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000129277	 The protein encoded by this gene is a mitogen-inducible monokine and is one of the major HIV-suppressive factors produced by CD8+ T-cells. The encoded protein is secreted and has chemokinetic and inflammatory functions. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000167705	 This gene encodes a lysosomal protein that interacts with RAB7, a small GTPase that controls transport to endocytic degradative compartments. Studies using mutant forms of the two proteins suggest that this protein represents a downstream effector for RAB7, and both proteins act together in the regulation of late endocytic traffic. A unique region of this protein has also been shown to be involved in the regulation of lysosomal morphology. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000183034	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AC068874.21 and AC087651.19. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000198874	 Wybutosine (yW) is a hypermodified guanosine found in phenylalanine tRNA adjacent to the anticodon that stabilizes codon-anticodon interactions in the ribosome. In yeast, the homolog of this gene is essential for the synthesis of wybutosine. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000129295	 The protein encoded by this gene contains several leucine-rich repeat domains and appears to be involved in the motility of cilia. Defects in this gene are a cause of primary ciliary dyskinesia-19 (CILD19). Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other not, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000136488	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the somatotropin/prolactin family of hormones and plays an important role in growth control. The gene is located at the growth hormone locus on chromosome 17 along with four other related genes in the same transcriptional orientation; an arrangement which is thought to have evolved by a series of gene duplications. Although the five genes share a remarkably high degree of sequence identity, they are expressed selectively in different tissues. Alternative splicing generates additional isoforms of each of the five growth hormones, leading to further diversity and potential for specialization. This particular family member is expressed mainly in the placenta and utilizes multiple transcription initiation sites. Expression of the identical mature proteins for chorionic somatomammotropin hormones 1 and 2 is upregulated during development, although the ratio of 1 to 2 increases by term. Mutations in this gene result in placental lactogen deficiency and Silver-Russell syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000073060	 The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane receptor for high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL). The encoded protein mediates cholesterol transfer to and from HDL. In addition, this protein is a receptor for hepatitis C virus glycoprotein E2. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000102466	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities, and are involved in a variety of biological processes, including embryonic development, cell growth, morphogenesis, tissue repair, tumor growth and invasion. A mutation in this gene is associated with autosomal dominant cerebral ataxia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000006652	 This gene is an immediate early gene that encodes a protein related to interferon-gamma. This protein may function as a transcriptional co-activator/repressor that controls the growth and differentiation of specific cell types during embryonic development and tissue regeneration. Mutations in this gene are associated with sensory/motor neuropathy with ataxia. This gene may also be involved in modulating the pathogenesis of cystic fibrosis lung disease. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000168769	 The protein encoded by this gene is a methylcytosine dioxygenase that catalyzes the conversion of methylcytosine to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine. The encoded protein is involved in myelopoiesis, and defects in this gene have been associated with several myeloproliferative disorders. Two variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000168653	 This gene is a member of the NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) iron-sulfur protein family. The encoded protein is a subunit of the NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I), the first enzyme complex in the electron transport chain located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants and pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1, 4 and 17. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000135503	 This gene encodes an activin A type IB receptor. Activins are dimeric growth and differentiation factors which belong to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of structurally related signaling proteins. Activins signal through a heteromeric complex of receptor serine kinases which include at least two type I and two type II receptors. This protein is a type I receptor which is essential for signaling. Mutations in this gene are associated with pituitary tumors. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000196498	 This gene encodes a nuclear receptor co-repressor that mediates transcriptional silencing of certain target genes. The encoded protein is a member of a family of thyroid hormone- and retinoic acid receptor-associated co-repressors. This protein acts as part of a multisubunit complex which includes histone deacetylases to modify chromatin structure that prevents basal transcriptional activity of target genes. Aberrant expression of this gene is associated with certain cancers. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000198677	 This gene encodes a protein with twenty tetratricopeptide (TPR) repeats. Tetratricopeptide repeat containing motifs are found in a variety of proteins and may mediate protein-protein interactions and chaperone activity. Mutations in this gene are associated with trichohepatoenteric syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000130054	 This gene encodes a product belonging to a family of proteins with unknown function. The presence of two transmembrane domains suggests that this protein is a multi-pass membrane protein. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000100813	 Apoptosis is defined by several morphologic nuclear changes, including chromatin condensation and nuclear fragmentation. This gene encodes a nuclear protein that induces apoptotic chromatin condensation after activation by caspase-3, without inducing DNA fragmentation. This protein has also been shown to be a component of a splicing-dependent multiprotein exon junction complex (EJC) that is deposited at splice junctions on mRNAs, as a consequence of pre-mRNA splicing. It may thus be involved in mRNA metabolism associated with splicing. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000149930	 This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that is involved in many different processes, including, cell signaling, microtubule organization and stability, and apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000160404	 This gene encodes a member of the AAA family of adenosine triphosphatases with similarity to Clp proteases and heat shock proteins. Alternative splicing at this locus results in the translation of multiple isoforms of the encoded protein, some of which contain salusin peptides in the C-terminal region. These peptides may play roles in hypotension, myocardial growth and the induction of mitogenesis, and may also be involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000255346	 This gene is predominantly expressed in the testis and lymphocyte-rich areas of spleen and lymph nodes. It encodes a calcium-dependen NADPH oxidase that generates superoxide, and functions as a calcium-dependent proton channel that may regulate redox-dependent processes in lymphocytes and spermatozoa. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000204394	 Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by their cognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids with nucleotide triplets contained in tRNAs, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are thought to be among the first proteins that appeared in evolution. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family and is located in the class III region of the major histocompatibility complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109618	 The amino acid selenocysteine is the only amino acid that does not have its own tRNA synthetase. Instead, this amino acid is synthesized on its cognate tRNA in a three step process. The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the third step in the process, the conversion of O-phosphoseryl-tRNA(Sec) to selenocysteinyl-tRNA(Sec).[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000196236	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of X-pro-aminopeptidases that utilize a metal cofactor, and remove the N-terminal amino acid from peptides with a proline residue in the penultimate position. This protein has been shown to localize to the mitochondria of renal cells, and have a role in ciliary function. Mutations in this gene are associated with nephronophthisis-like nephropathy-1. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene, however, expression of some of these isoforms in vivo is not known.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000101152	 This gene is a member of the J protein family. J proteins function in many cellular processes by regulating the ATPase activity of 70 kDa heat shock proteins. The encoded protein plays a role in membrane trafficking and protein folding, and has been shown to have anti-neurodegenerative properties. The encoded protein is known to play a role in cystic fibrosis and Huntington's disease. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 8. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000011295	 This gene encodes a protein with a tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domain containing several TPRs of about 34 aa each. These repeats are found in a variety of organisms including bacteria, fungi and plants, and are involved in a variety of functions including protein-protein interactions. This protein is embedded in the inner mitochondrial membrane and is involved in the formation of the mitochondrial respiratory chain III. It has also been suggested that this protein plays a role in cytokinesis. Mutations in this gene cause mitochondrial complex III deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000076864	 This gene encodes a type of GTPase-activating-protein (GAP) that down-regulates the activity of the ras-related RAP1 protein. RAP1 acts as a molecular switch by cycling between an inactive GDP-bound form and an active GTP-bound form. The product of this gene, RAP1GAP, promotes the hydrolysis of bound GTP and hence returns RAP1 to the inactive state whereas other proteins, guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs), act as RAP1 activators by facilitating the conversion of RAP1 from the GDP- to the GTP-bound form. In general, ras subfamily proteins, such as RAP1, play key roles in receptor-linked signaling pathways that control cell growth and differentiation. RAP1 plays a role in diverse processes such as cell proliferation, adhesion, differentiation, and embryogenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000050555	 Laminins, a family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins, are the major noncollagenous constituent of basement membranes. They have been implicated in a wide variety of biological processes including cell adhesion, differentiation, migration, signaling, neurite outgrowth and metastasis. Laminins are composed of 3 non identical chains: laminin alpha, beta and gamma (formerly A, B1, and B2, respectively) and they form a cruciform structure consisting of 3 short arms, each formed by a different chain, and a long arm composed of all 3 chains. Each laminin chain is a multidomain protein encoded by a distinct gene. Several isoforms of each chain have been described. Different alpha, beta and gamma chain isomers combine to give rise to different heterotrimeric laminin isoforms which are designated by Arabic numerals in the order of their discovery, i.e. alpha1beta1gamma1 heterotrimer is laminin 1. The biological functions of the different chains and trimer molecules are largely unknown, but some of the chains have been shown to differ with respect to their tissue distribution, presumably reflecting diverse functions in vivo. This gene encodes the gamma chain isoform laminin, gamma 3. The gamma 3 chain is most similar to the gamma 1 chain, and contains all the 6 domains expected of the gamma chain. It is a component of laminin 12. The gamma 3 chain is broadly expressed in skin, heart, lung, and the reproductive tracts. In skin, it is seen within the basement membrane of the dermal-epidermal junction at points of nerve penetration. Gamma 3 is also a prominent element of the apical surface of ciliated epithelial cells of lung, oviduct, epididymis, ductus deferens, and seminiferous tubules. The distribution of gamma 3-containing laminins along ciliated epithelial surfaces suggests that the apical laminins are important in the morphogenesis and structural stability of the ciliated processes of these cells. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000140835	 This gene encodes an N-acetylglucosamine 6-O sulfotransferase. The encoded enzyme transfers sulfate from 3'phosphoadenosine 5'phospho-sulfate to the 6-hydroxyl group of N-acetylglucosamine on glycoproteins. This protein is localized to the Golgi and is involved in the modification of glycan structures on ligands of the lymphocyte homing receptor L-selectin. Alternate splicing in the 5' UTR results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000130600	 This gene expresses a non-coding RNA, and functions as a tumor suppressor. The gene is located in an imprinted region of chromosome 11 near the insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2) gene. Expression of this gene and IGF2 are imprinted so that this gene is only expressed from the maternally-inherited chromosome, and IGF2 is only expressed from the paternally-inherited chromosome. A region of paternal-specific methylation upstream of this gene is required for the imprinting of these genes. Mutations in this gene are associated with Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome and Wilms tumorigenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000163235	 This gene encodes a growth factor that is a ligand for the epidermal growth factor receptor, which activates a signaling pathway for cell proliferation, differentiation and development. This protein may act as either a transmembrane-bound ligand or a soluble ligand. This gene has been associated with many types of cancers, and it may also be involved in some cases of cleft lip/palate. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000066056	 This gene encodes a member of the tyrosine protein kinase family. The encoded protein plays a critical role in angiogenesis and blood vessel stability by inhibiting angiopoietin 1 signaling through the endothelial receptor tyrosine kinase Tie2. Ectodomain cleavage of the encoded protein relieves inhibition of Tie2 and is mediated by multiple factors including vascular endothelial growth factor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000162430	 This gene encodes a selenoprotein, which contains a selenocysteine (Sec) residue at its active site. The selenocysteine is encoded by the UGA codon that normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTR of selenoprotein genes have a common stem-loop structure, the sec insertion sequence (SECIS), that is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon rather than as a stop signal. Mutations in this gene cause the classical phenotype of multiminicore disease and congenital muscular dystrophy with spinal rigidity and restrictive respiratory syndrome. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178394	 This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin), and belongs to the 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor subfamily. Serotonin has been implicated in a number of physiologic processes and pathologic conditions. Inactivation of this gene in mice results in behavior consistent with an increased anxiety and stress response. Mutation in the promoter of this gene has been associated with menstrual cycle-dependent periodic fevers. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000187772	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the lin-28 family, which is characterized by the presence of a cold-shock domain and a pair of CCHC zinc finger domains. This gene is highly expressed in testis, fetal liver, placenta, and in primary human tumors and cancer cell lines. It is negatively regulated by microRNAs that target sites in the 3' UTR, and overexpression of this gene in primary tumors is linked to the repression of let-7 family of microRNAs and derepression of let-7 targets, which facilitates cellular transformation. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000141337	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfatase enzyme family. Sulfatases hydrolyze sulfate esters from sulfated steroids, carbohydrates, proteoglycans, and glycolipids. They are involved in hormone biosynthesis, modulation of cell signaling, and degradation of macromolecules. This protein displays arylsulfatase activity at acidic pH, as is typical of lysosomal sulfatases, and has been shown to localize in the lysosomes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000180316	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the patatin-like phospholipase (PNPLA) family, which is characterized by the presence of a highly conserved patatin domain. PNPLA family members have diverse lipolytic and acyltransferase activities, and are key elements in lipid metabolism. While other members of this family have been well characterized, the function of this gene remained an enigma. However, recent studies show that this gene is expressed in the skin epidermal keratinocytes, and has a role in glycerophospholipid metabolism in the cutaneous barrier. Consistent with these observations, mutations in this gene are associated with ichthyosis in human (autosomal recessive congenital ichthyoses, ARCI) and dog. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000167716	 This gene encodes a multi-domain transmembrane protein, which is predominantly expressed in the brain. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia, mental retardation, and dysequilibrium syndrome-2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000074800	 This gene encodes alpha-enolase, one of three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals. Each isoenzyme is a homodimer composed of 2 alpha, 2 gamma, or 2 beta subunits, and functions as a glycolytic enzyme. Alpha-enolase in addition, functions as a structural lens protein (tau-crystallin) in the monomeric form. Alternative splicing of this gene results in a shorter isoform that has been shown to bind to the c-myc promoter and function as a tumor suppressor. Several pseudogenes have been identified, including one on the long arm of chromosome 1. Alpha-enolase has also been identified as an autoantigen in Hashimoto encephalopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000185985	 This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that contains two N-terminal leucine-rich repeats domains and contains C-terminal regions similar to neurotrophin receptors. The encoded protein may play a role in modulating neurite activity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000167323	 This gene encodes a type 1 transmembrane protein that mediates Ca2+ influx after depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores by gating of store-operated Ca2+ influx channels (SOCs). It is one of several genes located in the imprinted gene domain of 11p15.5, an important tumor-suppressor gene region. Alterations in this region have been associated with the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, adrenocrotical carcinoma, and lung, ovarian, and breast cancer. This gene may play a role in malignancies and disease that involve this region, as well as early hematopoiesis, by mediating attachment to stromal cells. This gene is oriented in a head-to-tail configuration with the ribonucleotide reductase 1 gene (RRM1), with the 3' end of this gene situated 1.6 kb from the 5' end of the RRM1 gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000113263	 This gene encodes an intracellular tyrosine kinase expressed in T-cells. The protein contains both SH2 and SH3 domains which are often found in intracellular kinases. It is thought to play a role in T-cell proliferation and differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137693	 This gene encodes the human ortholog of chicken YAP protein which binds to the SH3 domain of the Yes proto-oncogene product. This protein contains a WW domain that is found in various structural, regulatory and signaling molecules in yeast, nematode, and mammals, and may be involved in protein-protein interaction. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163702	 This gene encodes a single-pass type I membrane protein that shares similarity with the interleukin-17 receptor (IL-17RA). Unlike IL-17RA, which is predominantly expressed in hemopoietic cells, and binds with high affinity to only IL-17A, this protein is expressed in nonhemopoietic tissues, and binds both IL-17A and IL-17F with similar affinities. The proinflammatory cytokines, IL-17A and IL-17F, have been implicated in the progression of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been detected for this gene, and it has been proposed that soluble, secreted proteins lacking transmembrane and intracellular domains may function as extracellular antagonists to cytokine signaling. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000011275	 This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein which specifically colocalizes and interacts with the serine/threonine protein kinase, receptor-interacting protein (RIP). Zinc finger domains of the encoded protein are required for its interaction with RIP and for inhibition of TNF- and IL1-induced NF-kappa B activation pathways. The encoded protein may also function as an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase which accepts ubiquitin from E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes and transfers it to substrates. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this locus but the full-length natures of only some are known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186318	 Cerebral deposition of amyloid beta peptide is an early and critical feature of Alzheimer's disease. Amyloid beta peptide is generated by proteolytic cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by two proteases, one of which is the protein encoded by this gene. The encoded protein, a member of the peptidase A1 protein family, is a type I integral membrane glycoprotein and aspartic protease that is found mainly in the Golgi. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000119383	 Protein phosphatase 2A is one of the four major Ser/Thr phosphatases and is implicated in the negative control of cell growth and division. Protein phosphatase 2A holoenzymes are heterotrimeric proteins composed of a structural subunit A, a catalytic subunit C, and a regulatory subunit B. The regulatory subunit is encoded by a diverse set of genes that have been grouped into the B/PR55, B'/PR61, and B''/PR72 families. These different regulatory subunits confer distinct enzymatic specificities and intracellular localizations to the holozenzyme. The product of this gene belongs to the B' family. This gene encodes a specific phosphotyrosyl phosphatase activator of the dimeric form of protein phosphatase 2A. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000180616	 Somatostatin acts at many sites to inhibit the release of many hormones and other secretory proteins. The biologic effects of somatostatin are probably mediated by a family of G protein-coupled receptors that are expressed in a tissue-specific manner. SSTR2 is a member of the superfamily of receptors having seven transmembrane segments and is expressed in highest levels in cerebrum and kidney. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130255	 Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 60S subunit. The protein belongs to the L36E family of ribosomal proteins. It is located in the cytoplasm. Transcript variants derived from alternative splicing exist; they encode the same protein. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119778	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the AAA ATPase family, CDC48 subfamily. This subfamily members in eukaryotes are involved in the budding and transfer of membrane from the transitional endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus. The exact function of this protein is not known. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000172216	 The protein encoded by this intronless gene is a bZIP transcription factor which can bind as a homodimer to certain DNA regulatory regions. It can also form heterodimers with the related proteins CEBP-alpha, CEBP-delta, and CEBP-gamma. The encoded protein is important in the regulation of genes involved in immune and inflammatory responses and has been shown to bind to the IL-1 response element in the IL-6 gene, as well as to regulatory regions of several acute-phase and cytokine genes. In addition, the encoded protein can bind the promoter and upstream element and stimulate the expression of the collagen type I gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000107262	 The oncogene BCL2 is a membrane protein that blocks a step in a pathway leading to apoptosis or programmed cell death. The protein encoded by this gene binds to BCL2 and is referred to as BCL2-associated athanogene. It enhances the anti-apoptotic effects of BCL2 and represents a link between growth factor receptors and anti-apoptotic mechanisms. Multiple protein isoforms are encoded by this mRNA through the use of a non-AUG (CUG) initiation codon, and three alternative downstream AUG initiation codons. A related pseudogene has been defined on chromosome X. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000130741	 The protein encoded by this gene is the largest subunit of a heterotrimeric GTP-binding protein involved in the recruitment of methionyl-tRNA(i) to the 40 S ribosomal subunit. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000125352	 This intronless gene encodes a protein which contains a C3H1-type zinc finger domain and a C3HC4 Ring-type (Really Interesting New Gene-type) zinc finger domain. The Ring-type zinc finger domain is identified in various tumor suppressors, DNA repair genes and cytokine receptor-associated molecules, and is probably involved in mediating protein-protein interactions. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000165182	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AC079376.26. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000156500	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL691477.9 and Z83826.13. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000157404	 This gene encodes the human homolog of the proto-oncogene c-kit. C-kit was first identified as the cellular homolog of the feline sarcoma viral oncogene v-kit. This protein is a type 3 transmembrane receptor for MGF (mast cell growth factor, also known as stem cell factor). Mutations in this gene are associated with gastrointestinal stromal tumors, mast cell disease, acute myelogenous lukemia, and piebaldism. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182197	 This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum-resident type II transmembrane glycosyltransferase involved in the chain elongation step of heparan sulfate biosynthesis. Mutations in this gene cause the type I form of multiple exostoses. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163161	 ERCC3 is an ATP-dependent DNA helicase that functions in nucleotide excision repair and complements xeroderma pigmentosum group B mutations. It also is the 89 kDa subunit of basal transcription factor 2 (TFIIH) and thus functions in class II transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000081923	 This gene encodes a member of the P-type cation transport ATPase family, which belongs to the subfamily of aminophospholipid-transporting ATPases. The aminophospholipid translocases transport phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylethanolamine from one side of a bilayer to another. Mutations in this gene may result in progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 1 and in benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000155850	 The diastrophic dysplasia sulfate transporter is a transmembrane glycoprotein implicated in the pathogenesis of several human chondrodysplasias. It apparently is critical in cartilage for sulfation of proteoglycans and matrix organization. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000134899	 This gene encodes a single-strand specific DNA endonuclease that makes the 3' incision in DNA excision repair following UV-induced damage. The protein may also function in other cellular processes, including RNA polymerase II transcription, and transcription-coupled DNA repair. Mutations in this gene cause xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group G (XP-G), which is also referred to as xeroderma pigmentosum VII (XP7), a skin disorder characterized by hypersensitivity to UV light and increased susceptibility for skin cancer development following UV exposure. Some patients also develop Cockayne syndrome, which is characterized by severe growth defects, mental retardation, and cachexia. Read-through transcription exists between this gene and the neighboring upstream BIVM (basic, immunoglobulin-like variable motif containing) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000056972	 This gene encodes a protein involved in regulating responses to cytokines by members of the Rel/NF-kappaB transcription factor family. These factors play a central role in innate immunity in response to pathogens, inflammatory signals and stress. This gene product interacts with TRAF proteins (tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors) and either I-kappaB kinase or MAP kinase to activate either NF-kappaB or Jun kinase. Several alternative transcripts encoding different isoforms have been identified. Another transcript, which does not encode a protein and is transcribed in the opposite orientation, has been identified. Overexpression of this transcript has been shown to reduce expression of at least one of the protein encoding transcripts, suggesting it has a regulatory role in the expression of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000099246	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of Ras-related small GTPases that regulate membrane trafficking in organelles and transport vesicles. Knockdown studies is zebrafish suggest that this protein may have a role in eye and brain development. Mutations in this gene are associated with Warburg micro syndrome type 3. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000149294	 This gene encodes a cell adhesion protein which is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein is involved in cell-to-cell interactions as well as cell-matrix interactions during development and differentiation. The encoded protein has been shown to be involved in development of the nervous system, and for cells involved in the expansion of T cells and dendritic cells which play an important role in immune surveillance. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000167371	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein containing a proline-rich domain in its N-terminal half. Studies in mice suggest that it is predominantly expressed in brain and spinal cord in embryonic and postnatal stages. Mutations in this gene are associated with episodic kinesigenic dyskinesia-1. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000176715	 This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA synthetase family of enzymes that activate fatty acids by catalyzing the formation of a thioester linkage between fatty acids and coenzyme A. The encoded protein is localized to mitochondria, has high specificity for malonate and methylmalonate and possesses malonyl-CoA synthetase activity. Mutations in this gene are a cause of combined malonic and methylmalonic aciduria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000187535	 This gene encodes one of the subunits of the intraflagellar transport (IFT) complex A. Intraflagellar transport is involved in the genesis, resorption and signaling of primary cilia. The primary cilium is a microtubule-based sensory organelle at the surface of most quiescent mammalian cells, that receives signals from its environment, such as the flow of fluid, light or odors, and transduces those signals to the nucleus. Loss of the corresponding protein in mouse results in renal cystic disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000107371	 This gene encodes a non-catalytic component of the human exosome, a complex with 3'-5' exoribonuclease activity that plays a role in numerous RNA processing and degradation activities. Related pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosome 19 and 21. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000127445	 Peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerases (PPIases) catalyze the cis/trans isomerization of peptidyl-prolyl peptide bonds. This gene encodes one of the PPIases, which specifically binds to phosphorylated ser/thr-pro motifs to catalytically regulate the post-phosphorylation conformation of its substrates. The conformational regulation catalyzed by this PPIase has a profound impact on key proteins involved in the regulation of cell growth, genotoxic and other stress responses, the immune response, induction and maintenance of pluripotency, germ cell development, neuronal differentiation, and survival. This enzyme also plays a key role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and many cancers. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000124766	 This intronless gene encodes a member of the SOX (SRY-related HMG-box) family of transcription factors involved in the regulation of embryonic development and in the determination of the cell fate. The encoded protein may act as a transcriptional regulator after forming a protein complex with other proteins, such as syndecan binding protein (syntenin). The protein may function in the apoptosis pathway leading to cell death as well as to tumorigenesis and may mediate downstream effects of parathyroid hormone (PTH) and PTH-related protein (PTHrP) in bone development. The solution structure has been resolved for the HMG-box of a similar mouse protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178585	 The protein encoded by this gene binds CTNNB1 and prevents interaction between CTNNB1 and TCF family members. The encoded protein is a negative regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000158955	 The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes that encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. Study of its expression in the teratocarcinoma cell line NT2 suggests that it may be implicated in the early process of neuronal differentiation of NT2 cells induced by retinoic acid. This gene is clustered with WNT3, another family member, in the chromosome 17q21 region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106113	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 2 family, and the subfamily of corticotropin releasing hormone receptor. This receptor shows high affinity for corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH), and also binds CRH-related peptides such as urocortin. CRH is synthesized in the hypothalamus, and plays an important role in coordinating the endocrine, autonomic, and behavioral responses to stress and immune challenge. Studies in mice suggest that this receptor maybe involved in mediating cardiovascular homeostasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000119630	 This gene encodes a growth factor found in placenta which is homologous to vascular endothelial growth factor. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000205364	 This gene encodes a member of the metallothionein superfamily, type 1 family. Metallothioneins have a high content of cysteine residues that bind various heavy metals. These genes are transcriptionally regulated by both heavy metals and glucocorticoids. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000186298	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the protein phosphatase family, PP1 subfamily. PP1 is an ubiquitous serine/threonine phosphatase that regulates many cellular processes, including cell division. It is expressed in mammalian cells as three closely related isoforms, alpha, beta/delta and gamma, which have distinct localization patterns. This gene encodes the gamma isozyme. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000152127	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glycosyltransferase family. It catalyzes the addition of beta-1,6-N-acetylglucosamine to the alpha-linked mannose of biantennary N-linked oligosaccharides present on the newly synthesized glycoproteins. It is one of the most important enzymes involved in the regulation of the biosynthesis of glycoprotein oligosaccharides. Alterations of the oligosaccharides on cell surface glycoproteins cause significant changes in the adhesive or migratory behavior of a cell. Increase in the activity of this enzyme has been correlated with the progression of invasive malignancies. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000161640	 This gene encodes a member of the sialic acid-binding immunoglobulin-like lectin family. These cell surface lectins are characterized by structural motifs in the immunoglobulin (Ig)-like domains and sialic acid recognition sites in the first Ig V set domain. This family member mediates anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive signaling. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000075886	 This gene encodes a member of the alpha tubulin family. Tubulin is a major component of microtubules, which are composed of alpha- and beta-tubulin heterodimers and microtubule-associated proteins in the cytoskeleton. Microtubules maintain cellular structure, function in intracellular transport, and play a role in spindle formation during mitosis. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000104951	 This gene encodes a protein with limited similarity to L-amino acid oxidase which contains the conserved amino acids thought to be involved in catalysis and binding of flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) cofactor. The expression of this gene can be induced by interleukin 4 in B cells, however, expression of transcripts containing the first two exons of the upstream gene is found in other cell types. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000123095	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that belongs to the Hairy/Enhancer of Split subfamily of basic helix-loop-helix factors. The encoded protein functions as a transcriptional repressor and as a regulator of molecular clock. Defects in this gene are associated with the short sleep phenotype. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000204264	 The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highly ordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomal pathway. An essential function of a modified proteasome, the immunoproteasome, is the processing of class I MHC peptides. This gene encodes a member of the proteasome B-type family, also known as the T1B family, that is a 20S core beta subunit. This gene is located in the class II region of the MHC (major histocompatibility complex). Expression of this gene is induced by gamma interferon and this gene product replaces catalytic subunit 3 (proteasome beta 5 subunit) in the immunoproteasome. Proteolytic processing is required to generate a mature subunit. Two alternative transcripts encoding two isoforms have been identified; both isoforms are processed to yield the same mature subunit. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113905	 This histidine-rich glycoprotein contains two cystatin-like domains and is located in plasma and platelets. The physiological function has not been determined but it is known that the protein binds heme, dyes and divalent metal ions. It can inhibit rosette formation and interacts with heparin, thrombospondin and plasminogen. Two of the protein's effects, the inhibition of fibrinolysis and the reduction of inhibition of coagulation, indicate a potential prothrombotic effect. Mutations in this gene lead to thrombophilia due to abnormal histidine-rich glycoprotein levels. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113389	 This gene encodes one of three natriuretic peptide receptors. Natriutetic peptides are small peptides which regulate blood volume and pressure, pulmonary hypertension, and cardiac function as well as some metabolic and growth processes. The product of this gene encodes a natriuretic peptide receptor responsible for clearing circulating and extracellular natriuretic peptides through endocytosis of the receptor. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000011485	 This gene encodes a serine/threonine phosphatase which is a member of the protein phosphatase catalytic subunit family. Proteins in this family participate in pathways regulated by reversible phosphorylation at serine and threonine residues; many of these pathways are involved in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation. The product of this gene has been shown to participate in signaling pathways in response to hormones or cellular stress, and elevated levels of this protein may be associated with breast cancer development. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000182621	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol from phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. This reaction uses calcium as a cofactor and plays an important role in the intracellular transduction of many extracellular signals. This gene is activated by two G-protein alpha subunits, alpha-q and alpha-11. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132855	 This gene encodes a member of a family of secreted proteins that function in angiogenesis. The encoded protein, which is expressed predominantly in the liver, is further processed into an N-terminal coiled-coil domain-containing chain and a C-terminal fibrinogen chain. The N-terminal chain is important for lipid metablism, while the C-terminal chain may be involved in angiogenesis. Mutations in this gene cause familial hypobetalipoproteinemia type 2. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000173801	 This gene encodes a major cytoplasmic protein which is the only known constituent common to submembranous plaques of both desmosomes and intermediate junctions. This protein forms distinct complexes with cadherins and desmosomal cadherins and is a member of the catenin family since it contains a distinct repeating amino acid motif called the armadillo repeat. Mutation in this gene has been associated with Naxos disease. Alternative splicing occurs in this gene; however, not all transcripts have been fully described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197822	 This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that is required for cytokine-induced regulation of the tight junction paracellular permeability barrier. Mutations in this gene are thought to be a cause of band-like calcification with simplified gyration and polymicrogyria (BLC-PMG), an autosomal recessive neurologic disorder that is also known as pseudo-TORCH syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene is present 1.5 Mb downstream on the q arm of chromosome 5. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000104381	 This gene encodes a member of the ganglioside-induced differentiation-associated protein family, which may play a role in a signal transduction pathway during neuronal development. Mutations in this gene have been associated with various forms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease and neuropathy. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms and a noncoding variant have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000145075	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the motility of cilia and flagella. The encoded protein is essential for the assembly of dynein regulatory and inner dynein arm complexes, which regulate ciliary beat. Defects in this gene are a cause of primary ciliary dyskinesia type 14 (CILD14). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000176919	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the lipocalin family. It is one of the three subunits that constitutes complement component 8 (C8), which is composed of a disulfide-linked C8 alpha-gamma heterodimer and a non-covalently associated C8 beta chain. C8 participates in the formation of the membrane attack complex (MAC) on bacterial cell membranes. While subunits alpha and beta play a role in complement-mediated bacterial killing, the gamma subunit is not required for the bactericidal activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000204131	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL929401.8 and BX119917.9. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000140463	 This gene is a member of the Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) gene family. Bardet-Biedl syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe pigmentary retinopathy, obesity, polydactyly, renal malformation and mental retardation. The proteins encoded by BBS gene family members are structurally diverse. The similar phenotypes exhibited by mutations in BBS gene family members are likely due to the protein's shared roles in cilia formation and function. Many BBS proteins localize to the basal bodies, ciliary axonemes, and pericentriolar regions of cells. BBS proteins may also be involved in intracellular trafficking via microtubule-related transport. The protein encoded by this gene has sequence similarity to O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) transferases in plants and archaebacteria and in human forms a multi-protein 'BBSome' complex with six other BBS proteins. Alternative splice variants have been described but their predicted protein products have not been experimentally verified.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000188677	 This gene encodes a member of the parvin family of actin-binding proteins, which play a role in cytoskeleton organization and cell adhesion. These proteins are associated with focal contacts and contain calponin homology domains that bind to actin filaments. This family member binds to alphaPIX and alpha-actinin, and it can inhibit the activity of integrin-linked kinase. This protein also functions in tumor suppression. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000068912	 This gene encodes a resident endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein that functions in N-glycan recognition. This protein is thought to be involved in ER-associated degradation via its interaction with the membrane-associated ubiquitin ligase complex. It also functions as a regulator of multiple cellular stress-response pathways in a manner that promotes metastatic cell survival. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 21. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000156467	 This gene encodes a subunit of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c oxidoreductase complex, which consists of one mitochondrial-encoded and 10 nuclear-encoded subunits. The protein encoded by this gene binds ubiquinone and participates in the transfer of electrons when ubiquinone is bound. This protein plays an important role in hypoxia-induced angiogenesis through mitochondrial reactive oxygen species-mediated signaling. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex III deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1, 5 and X. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000117394	 This gene encodes a major glucose transporter in the mammalian blood-brain barrier. The encoded protein is found primarily in the cell membrane and on the cell surface, where it can also function as a receptor for human T-cell leukemia virus (HTLV) I and II. Mutations in this gene have been found in a family with paroxysmal exertion-induced dyskinesia. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013]. 
ENSG00000072694	 The protein encoded by this gene is a low affinity receptor for the Fc region of immunoglobulin gamma complexes. The encoded protein is involved in the phagocytosis of immune complexes and in the regulation of antibody production by B-cells. Variations in this gene may increase susceptibilty to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000137642	 This gene encodes a mosaic protein that belongs to at least two families: the vacuolar protein sorting 10 (VPS10) domain-containing receptor family, and the low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) family. The encoded protein also contains fibronectin type III repeats and an epidermal growth factor repeat. The encoded protein is translated as a preproprotein and likely plays roles in endocytosis and sorting. There may be an association between expression of this locus and Alzheimer's Disease.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000158423	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from Z97054.1. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000177363	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AP001458.6. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000165898	 The protein encoded by this gene is an A-type iron-sulfur cluster (ISC) protein found in mitochondria. The encoded protein appears to be involved in the maturation of mitochondrial iron-sulfur proteins. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000162779	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AL451075.15 and AL160286.16. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000166086	 Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and serving as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space. The protein encoded by this immunoglobulin superfamily gene member is localized in the tight junctions between high endothelial cells. Unlike other proteins in this family, the this protein is unable to adhere to leukocyte cell lines and only forms weak homotypic interactions. The encoded protein is a member of the junctional adhesion molecule protein family and acts as a receptor for another member of this family. A mutation in an intron of this gene is associated with hemorrhagic destruction of the brain, subependymal calcification, and congenital cataracts. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000151413	 This gene encodes a member of the Mrp/NBP35 ATP-binding proteins family. The encoded protein is required for the assembly of the respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (complex I), an oligomeric enzymatic complex located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. The respiratory complex I consists of 45 subunits and 8 iron-sulfur (Fe/S) clusters. This protein is an Fe/S protein that plays a critical role in the assembly of respiratory complex I, likely by transferring Fe/S into the Fe/S-containing complex I subunits. Mutations in this gene cause mitochondrial complex I deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000157734	 The protein encoded by this gene is a sorting nexin that is found in the cytoplasm, where it interacts with membrane-bound phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate. The encoded protein may play a role in intracellular trafficking. Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other not protein-coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000105370	 This gene encodes an eye lens-specific protein found at the junctions of lens fiber cells, where it may contribute to cell junctional organization. It acts as a receptor for calmodulin, and may play an important role in both lens development and cataractogenesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with cataract formation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000134853	 This gene encodes a cell surface tyrosine kinase receptor for members of the platelet-derived growth factor family. These growth factors are mitogens for cells of mesenchymal origin. The identity of the growth factor bound to a receptor monomer determines whether the functional receptor is a homodimer or a heterodimer, composed of both platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha and beta polypeptides. Studies suggest that this gene plays a role in organ development, wound healing, and tumor progression. Mutations in this gene have been associated with idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome, somatic and familial gastrointestinal stromal tumors, and a variety of other cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000197694	 Spectrins are a family of filamentous cytoskeletal proteins that function as essential scaffold proteins that stabilize the plasma membrane and organize intracellular organelles. Spectrins are composed of alpha and beta dimers that associate to form tetramers linked in a head-to-head arrangement. This gene encodes an alpha spectrin that is specifically expressed in nonerythrocytic cells. The encoded protein has been implicated in other cellular functions including DNA repair and cell cycle regulation. Mutations in this gene are the cause of early infantile epileptic encephalopathy-5. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000120457	 Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where they participate in a wide range of physiologic responses. The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassium channel. The encoded protein, which has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell, is controlled by G-proteins. It may associate with two other G-protein-activated potassium channels to form a heteromultimeric pore-forming complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145740	 This gene encodes a member of the SLC30A/ZnT family of zinc transporter proteins. ZnT proteins mediate both cellular zinc efflux and zinc sequestration into membrane-bound organelles. The encoded protein plays a role in the early secretory pathway as a heterodimer with zinc transporter 6, and may also regulate zinc sequestration into secretory granules of pancreatic beta cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 19. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000166452	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein that interacts with protein kinase A catalytic subunit, and regulates the effect of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase signaling pathway on the NF-kappa-B activation cascade. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000166405	 The protein encoded by this gene promotes functional expression of homomeric nicotinic acetylcholine receptors at the cell surface. It enhances currents generated by these receptors by expediting receptor transport to the cell surface and by increasing receptor number. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000144579	 This gene encodes a member of the small C-terminal domain phosphatase (SCP) family of nuclear phosphatases. These proteins play a role in transcriptional regulation through specific dephosphorylation of phosphoserine 5 within tandem heptapeptide repeats of the C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II. The encoded protein plays a role in neuronal gene silencing in non-neuronal cells, and may also inhibit osteoblast differentiation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000128039	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the steroid 5-alpha reductase family, and polyprenol reductase subfamily. It is involved in the production of androgen 5-alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) from testosterone, and maintenance of the androgen-androgen receptor activation pathway. This protein is also necessary for the conversion of polyprenol into dolichol, which is required for the synthesis of dolichol-linked monosaccharides and the oligosaccharide precursor used for N-linked glycosylation of proteins. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital disorder of glycosylation type Iq. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000185010	 This gene encodes coagulation factor VIII, which participates in the intrinsic pathway of blood coagulation; factor VIII is a cofactor for factor IXa which, in the presence of Ca+2 and phospholipids, converts factor X to the activated form Xa. This gene produces two alternatively spliced transcripts. Transcript variant 1 encodes a large glycoprotein, isoform a, which circulates in plasma and associates with von Willebrand factor in a noncovalent complex. This protein undergoes multiple cleavage events. Transcript variant 2 encodes a putative small protein, isoform b, which consists primarily of the phospholipid binding domain of factor VIIIc. This binding domain is essential for coagulant activity. Defects in this gene results in hemophilia A, a common recessive X-linked coagulation disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125968	 The protein encoded by this gene is a helix-loop-helix (HLH) protein that can form heterodimers with members of the basic HLH family of transcription factors. The encoded protein has no DNA binding activity and therefore can inhibit the DNA binding and transcriptional activation ability of basic HLH proteins with which it interacts. This protein may play a role in cell growth, senescence, and differentiation. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000179387	 This gene encodes one of six engulfment and motility (ELMO) domain-containing proteins. This gene is thought to play a role in antiviral responses. Mutations in this gene may be involved in the cause of familial idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000167397	 Vitamin K is essential for blood clotting but must be enzymatically activated. This enzymatically activated form of vitamin K is a reduced form required for the carboxylation of glutamic acid residues in some blood-clotting proteins. The product of this gene encodes the enzyme that is responsible for reducing vitamin K 2,3-epoxide to the enzymatically activated form. Fatal bleeding can be caused by vitamin K deficiency and by the vitamin K antagonist warfarin, and it is the product of this gene that is sensitive to warfarin. In humans, mutations in this gene can be associated with deficiencies in vitamin-K-dependent clotting factors and, in humans and rats, with warfarin resistance. Two pseudogenes have been identified on chromosome 1 and the X chromosome. Two alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157017	 This gene encodes ghrelin-obestatin preproprotein, which generates ghrelin and obestatin. Ghrelin is an endogenous ligand for the growth hormone secretagogue receptor and is involved in regulating growth hormone release. Obestatin was initially reported to be an endogenous ligand for the orphan G protein-coupled receptor GPR39 and was involved in satiety and decreased food intake; however, these findings are controversial. Recent reports show that obestatin is involved in inhibiting thirst and anxiety, improving memory, regulating sleep, affecting cell proliferation, and increasing the secretion of pancreatic juice enzymes. Alternative promoters and alternative splicing result in multiple transcript variants, some of which encode different protein isoforms and some of which do not encode a protein but may regulate the ghrelin-obestatin preproprotein expression. In addition, antisense transcripts for this gene have been identified and may also function in regulation of the ghrelin-obestatin preproprotein expression. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000090020	 This gene encodes a Na+/H+ antiporter that is a member of the solute carrier family 9. The encoded protein is a plasma membrane transporter that is expressed in the kidney and intestine. This protein plays a central role in regulating pH homeostasis, cell migration and cell volume. This protein may also be involved in tumor growth. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000100288	 Choline kinase (CK) and ethanolamine kinase (EK) catalyze the phosphorylation of choline/ethanolamine to phosphocholine/phosphoethanolamine. This is the first enzyme in the biosynthesis of phosphatidylcholine/phosphatidylethanolamine in all animal cells. The highly purified CKs from mammalian sources and their recombinant gene products have been shown to have EK activity also, indicating that both activities reside on the same protein. The choline kinase-like protein encoded by CHKL belongs to the choline/ethanolamine kinase family; however, its exact function is not known. Read-through transcripts are expressed from this locus that include exons from the downstream CPT1B locus. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000168291	 The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial multienzyme complex that catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and carbon dioxide, and provides the primary link between glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. The PDH complex is composed of multiple copies of three enzymatic components: pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3). The E1 enzyme is a heterotetramer of two alpha and two beta subunits. This gene encodes the E1 beta subunit. Mutations in this gene are associated with pyruvate dehydrogenase E1-beta deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000107562	 This gene encodes a stromal cell-derived alpha chemokine member of the intercrine family. This gene product and its receptor CXCR4 can activate lymphocytes and have been implicated in the metastasis of some cancers such as breast cancer. Mutations in this gene are associated with resistance to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infections. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000166548	 This gene encodes a deoxyribonucleoside kinase that specifically phosphorylates thymidine, deoxycytidine, and deoxyuridine. The encoded enzyme localizes to the mitochondria and is required for mitochondrial DNA synthesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with a myopathic form of mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms, some of which lack transit peptide, so are not localized to mitochondria. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000171595	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the dynein intermediate chain family, and is part of the dynein complex of respiratory cilia and sperm flagella. Mutations in this gene are associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia type 9. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000145908	 The protein encoded by this gene is a C2H2-type zinc finger DNA binding protein and likely transcriptional regulator. The function of this protein is not yet known. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000156172	 This gene encodes a ubiquitously expressed protein of unknown function. It has high levels of mRNA expression in the brain, heart, and retina and the protein co-localizes with polyglutamylated tubulin at the base of the primary cilium in human retinal pigment epithelial cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive cone-rod dystrophy (arCRD) and retinitis pigmentosa (arRP). [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000119723	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ubiH/COQ6 family. It is an evolutionarily conserved monooxygenase required for the biosynthesis of coenzyme Q10 (or ubiquinone), which is an essential component of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, and one of the most potent lipophilic antioxidants implicated in the protection of cell damage by reactive oxygen species. Knockdown of this gene in mouse and zebrafish results in decreased growth due to increased apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive coenzyme Q10 deficiency-6 (COQ10D6), which manifests as nephrotic syndrome with sensorineural deafness. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000174799	 This gene encodes a centrosomal protein, which acts as a scaffolding protein during early centriole biogenesis, and is also required for centriole-centriole cohesion during interphase. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive primary microcephaly-8. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000157259	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a zinc finger at the N-terminus, and is thought to bind to a histone modification site that regulates gene expression. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive dilated cardiomyopathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000182872	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein that belongs to a family proteins that contain an RNA-binding motif. The encoded protein associates with hnRNP proteins and may be involved in regulating alternative splicing. Defects in this gene are the cause of the X-linked recessive disorder, TARP syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000001626	 This gene encodes a member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily that is involved in multi-drug resistance. The encoded protein functions as a chloride channel and controls the regulation of other transport pathways. Mutations in this gene are associated with the autosomal recessive disorders cystic fibrosis and congenital bilateral aplasia of the vas deferens. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, many of which result from mutations in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000004961	 The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that covalently links a heme group to the apoprotein of cytochrome c. Defects in this gene are a cause of microphthalmia syndromic type 7 (MCOPS7). Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000028203	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein which has been localized to adherens junctions and shown to bind to myosin VIIA. Examination of expression of this gene in gastric cancer tissues have shown that expression is decreased which appears to be related to hypermethylation of the promoter. Expression of this gene may also be inhibited by binding of a specific microRNA to a target sequence in the 3' UTR of the transcripts. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the X chromosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000101935	 The exact function of this gene is not known, however, submicroscopic deletion of the X chromosome including this gene, COL4A5, and FACL4 genes, result in a contiguous gene deletion syndrome, the AMME complex (Alport syndrome, mental retardation, midface hypoplasia, and elliptocytosis). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000086712	 This gene encodes a member of the taxilin family. The encoded protein binds to the C-terminal coiled-coil region of syntaxin family members 1A, 3A and 4A, and may play a role in intracellular vesicle trafficking. This gene is up-regulated by lipopolysaccharide and the gene product may be involved in cell cycle regulation. The related mouse protein was also shown to inhibit activating transcription factor 4-mediated transcription and thus regulate bone mass accrual. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000132965	 This gene encodes a protein which, with 5-lipoxygenase, is required for leukotriene synthesis. Leukotrienes are arachidonic acid metabolites which have been implicated in various types of inflammatory responses, including asthma, arthritis and psoriasis. This protein localizes to the plasma membrane. Inhibitors of its function impede translocation of 5-lipoxygenase from the cytoplasm to the cell membrane and inhibit 5-lipoxygenase activation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000135341	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. This kinase mediates the signaling transduction induced by TGF beta and morphogenetic protein (BMP), and controls a variety of cell functions including transcription regulation and apoptosis. In response to IL-1, this protein forms a kinase complex including TRAF6, MAP3K7P1/TAB1 and MAP3K7P2/TAB2; this complex is required for the activation of nuclear factor kappa B. This kinase can also activate MAPK8/JNK, MAP2K4/MKK4, and thus plays a role in the cell response to environmental stresses. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000141564	 This gene encodes a component of a signaling pathway that regulates cell growth in response to nutrient and insulin levels. The encoded protein forms a stoichiometric complex with the mTOR kinase, and also associates with eukaryotic initiation factor 4E-binding protein-1 and ribosomal protein S6 kinase. The protein positively regulates the downstream effector ribosomal protein S6 kinase, and negatively regulates the mTOR kinase. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000153094	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family. BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. The protein encoded by this gene contains a Bcl-2 homology domain 3 (BH3). It has been shown to interact with other members of the BCL-2 protein family, including BCL2, BCL2L1/BCL-X(L), and MCL1, and to act as an apoptotic activator. The expression of this gene can be induced by nerve growth factor (NGF), as well as by the forkhead transcription factor FKHR-L1, which suggests a role of this gene in neuronal and lymphocyte apoptosis. Transgenic studies of the mouse counterpart suggested that this gene functions as an essential initiator of apoptosis in thymocyte-negative selection. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159110	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein that forms one of the two chains of a receptor for interferons alpha and beta. Binding and activation of the receptor stimulates Janus protein kinases, which in turn phosphorylate several proteins, including STAT1 and STAT2. Multiple transcript variants encoding at least two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000243989	 This gene encodes a cytosolic, homodimeric, zinc-binding enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of acylated L-amino acids to L-amino acids and an acyl group, and has been postulated to function in the catabolism and salvage of acylated amino acids. This gene is located on chromosome 3p21.1, a region reduced to homozygosity in small-cell lung cancer (SCLC), and its expression has been reported to be reduced or undetectable in SCLC cell lines and tumors. The amino acid sequence of human aminoacylase-1 is highly homologous to the porcine counterpart, and this enzyme is the first member of a new family of zinc-binding enzymes. Mutations in this gene cause aminoacylase-1 deficiency, a metabolic disorder characterized by central nervous system defects and increased urinary excretion of N-acetylated amino acids. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the upstream ABHD14A (abhydrolase domain containing 14A) gene, as represented in GeneID:100526760. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 18. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000167193	 This gene encodes a member of an adapter protein family that binds to several tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins. The product of this gene has several SH2 and SH3 domains (src-homology domains) and is involved in several signaling pathways, recruiting cytoplasmic proteins in the vicinity of tyrosine kinase through SH2-phosphotyrosine interaction. The N-terminal SH2 domain of this protein functions as a positive regulator of transformation whereas the C-terminal SH3 domain functions as a negative regulator of transformation. Two alternative transcripts encoding different isoforms with distinct biological activity have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113889	 This gene uses alternative splicing to generate two different proteins- high molecular weight kininogen (HMWK) and low molecular weight kininogen (LMWK). HMWK is essential for blood coagulation and assembly of the kallikrein-kinin system. Also, bradykinin, a peptide causing numerous physiological effects, is released from HMWK. In contrast to HMWK, LMWK is not involved in blood coagulation. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000133131	 In human, the four current members of the microrchidia (morc) gene family share an N-terminal ATPase-like ATP-binding region and a CW four-cysteine zinc-finger motif. The protein encoded by this gene also has a nuclear matrix binding domain and a two-stranded coiled-coil motif near its C-terminus. This gene is widely expressed at low levels in normal tissues and has elevated expression in placenta and testis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000123576	 This gene encodes a dual-function 65 kDa protein that undergoes proteolytic cleavage to produce a 45 kDa N-terminal fragment with a paired-like homeodomain and a 20 kDa C-terminal fragment with a proline-rich domain. The C-terminal fragment localizes to the cytoplasm while the N-terminal fragment localizes exclusively to the nucleus. In contrast to human, the mouse homolog has a novel PN/PF motif in the C-terminus and is paternally imprinted in placental tissue. This gene likely plays a role in placental development and spermatogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000126603	 This gene is a member of the GLI-similar zinc finger protein family and encodes a nuclear transcription factor with five C2H2-type zinc finger domains. The protein encoded by this gene is widely expressed at low levels in the neural tube and peripheral nervous system and likely promotes neuronal differentiation. It is abundantly expressed in the kidney and may have a role in the regulation of kidney morphogenesis. p120 regulates the expression level of this protein and induces the cleavage of this protein's C-terminal zinc finger domain. This protein also promotes the nuclear translocation of p120. Mutations in this gene cause nephronophthisis (NPHP), an autosomal recessive kidney disease characterized by tubular basement membrane disruption, interstitial lymphohistiocytic cell infiltration, and development of cysts at the corticomedullary border of the kidneys.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000101333	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol from phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. This reaction uses calcium as a cofactor and plays an important role in the intracellular transduction of many extracellular signals in the retina. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000065135	 Guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) are involved as modulators or transducers in various transmembrane signaling pathways. G proteins are composed of 3 units: alpha, beta and gamma. This gene encodes an alpha subunit and belongs to the G-alpha family. Mutation in this gene, resulting in a gly40-to-arg substitution, is associated with auriculocondylar syndrome, and shown to affect downstream targets in the G protein-coupled endothelin receptor pathway. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000174780	 This gene encodes the 72 kDa subunit of the signal recognition particle (SRP), a ribonucleoprotein complex that mediates the targeting of secretory proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The SRP complex consists of a 7S RNA and 6 protein subunits: SRP9, SRP14, SRP19, SRP54, SRP68, and SRP72, that are bound to the 7S RNA as monomers or heterodimers. SRP has at least 3 distinct functions that can be associated with the protein subunits: signal recognition, translational arrest, and ER membrane targeting by interaction with the docking protein. Mutations in this gene are associated with familial bone marrow failure. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000165617	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the dapper family, characterized by the presence of PDZ-binding motif at the C-terminus. It interacts with, and positively regulates dishevelled-mediated signaling pathways during development. Depletion of this mRNA from xenopus embryos resulted in loss of notochord and head structures, and mice lacking this gene died shortly after birth from severe posterior malformations. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000154153	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cis-Golgi transmembrane protein that may be necessary for the long-term survival of nociceptive and autonomic ganglion neurons. Mutations in this gene are a cause of hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IIB (HSAN IIB), and this gene may also play a role in susceptibility to vascular dementia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000078618	 This gene encodes a zinc-dependent endopeptidase that cleaves peptide substrates at the N-terminus of arginine residues in dibasic moieties and is a member of the peptidase M16 family. This protein interacts with heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor and plays a role in cell migration and proliferation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000079277	 This gene encodes a Ser/Thr protein kinase that interacts with, and is activated by ERK1 and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases, and thus may play a role in the response to environmental stress and cytokines. This kinase may also regulate transcription by phosphorylating eIF4E via interaction with the C-terminal region of eIF4G. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000197283	 The protein encoded by this gene is a major component of the postsynaptic density (PSD), a group of proteins found associated with NMDA receptors at synapses. The encoded protein is phosphorylated by calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II and dephosphorylated by NMDA receptor activation. Defects in this gene are a cause of mental retardation autosomal dominant type 5 (MRD5). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000135373	 This gene encodes a protein that belongs to an ETS transcription factor subfamily characterized by epithelial-specific expression (ESEs). The encoded protein acts as a transcriptional repressor and may be involved in epithelial differentiation and carcinogenesis. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000221930	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from Z82195.2. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000147010	 This gene encodes an adapter protein that contains three N-terminal Src homology domains, a proline rich region and a C-terminal coiled-coil domain. The encoded protein facilitates protein-protein interactions and has been implicated in numerous cellular processes including apoptosis, cytoskeletal rearrangement, cell adhesion and in the regulation of clathrin-dependent endocytosis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000226784	 This intronless gene appears to have arisen from a retrotransposition event, yet it is thought to be an expressed, protein-coding gene. The encoded protein is a member of the phosphoglycerate mutase family, a set of enzymes that catalyze the transfer of a phosphate group from 3-phosphoglycerate to 2-phosphoglycerate. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000236017	 This gene serves as the antisense to the acetylserotonin O-methyltransferase-like gene. Multiple non-coding transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000164299	 This gene encodes a bHLH-zip transcription factor which functions in the mitogen-activate protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway. Because of its role in the upregulation of cell proliferation and tumorigenesis, this gene may serve as a target for Ras-induced tumor treatments. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000141905	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the CTF/NF-I family. These are dimeric DNA-binding proteins, and function as cellular transcription factors and as replication factors for adenovirus DNA replication. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000113319	 RAS GTPases cycle between an inactive GDP-bound state and an active GTP-bound state. This gene encodes a calcium-regulated nucleotide exchange factor activating both RAS and RAS-related protein, RAC1, through the exchange of bound GDP for GTP, thereby, coordinating the signaling of distinct mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000071537	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of a protein complex required for the retrotranslocation or dislocation of misfolded proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum lumen to the cytosol, where they are degraded by the proteasome in a ubiquitin-dependent manner. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000137747	 This gene encodes a member of the type II transmembrane serine protease family. Transmembrane serine proteases are regulated by protease inhibitors and known to function in development, homeostasis, infection, and tumorigenesis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000140853	 This gene encodes a member of the caspase recruitment domain-containing NLR family. This gene plays a role in cytokine response and antiviral immunity through its inhibition of NF-kappa-B activation and negative regulation of type I interferon signaling pathways. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000204267	 The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.  ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes.  ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).  This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance.  This gene is located 7 kb telomeric to gene family member ABCB2.  The protein encoded by this gene is involved in antigen presentation.  This protein forms a heterodimer with ABCB2 in order to transport peptides from the cytoplasm to the endoplasmic reticulum.  Mutations in this gene may be associated with ankylosing spondylitis, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, and celiac disease.  Alternative splicing of this gene produces two products which differ in peptide selectivity and level of restoration of surface expression of MHC class I molecules. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000111716	 This gene encodes an enzyme which catalyzes the reversible conversion of lactate and pyruvate, and NAD and NADH, in the glycolytic pathway. Mutations in this gene are associated with lactate dehydrogenase B deficiency. Pseudogenes have been identified on the X chromosome and on chromosome. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000131831	 Retinoic acid plays a critical role in development, cellular growth, and differentiation. The specific function of this retinoic acid-induced gene has not yet been determined but it may play a role in development. The chromosomal location of this gene designates it to be a candidate for diseases such as Nance-Horan syndrome, sensorineural deafness, non-specific X-linked mental retardation, oral-facial-digital syndrome, and Fried syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000108061	 This gene encodes a protein that consists almost entirely of leucine-rich repeats, a domain implicated in protein-protein interactions. The protein may function as a scaffold linking RAS to downstream signal transducers in the RAS/ERK MAP kinase signaling cascade. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Noonan-like syndrome with loose anagen hair. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000181449	 This intronless gene encodes a member of the SRY-related HMG-box (SOX) family of transcription factors involved in the regulation of embryonic development and in the determination of cell fate. The product of this gene is required for stem-cell maintenance in the central nervous system, and also regulates gene expression in the stomach. Mutations in this gene have been associated with optic nerve hypoplasia and with syndromic microphthalmia, a severe form of structural eye malformation. This gene lies within an intron of another gene called SOX2 overlapping transcript (SOX2OT). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000118523	 The protein encoded by this gene is a mitogen that is secreted by vascular endothelial cells. The encoded protein plays a role in chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation, cell adhesion in many cell types, and is related to platelet-derived growth factor. Certain polymorphisms in this gene have been linked with a higher incidence of systemic sclerosis. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000254087	 This gene encodes a tyrosine protein kinase, which maybe involved in the regulation of mast cell degranulation, and erythroid differentiation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000111206	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional activator involved in cell proliferation. The encoded protein is phosphorylated in M phase and regulates the expression of several cell cycle genes, such as cyclin B1 and cyclin D1. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000112242	 This gene encodes a member of a small family of transcription factors that function through binding of DP interaction partner proteins. The encoded protein recognizes a specific sequence motif in DNA and interacts directly with the retinoblastoma protein (pRB) to regulate the expression of genes involved in the cell cycle. Altered copy number and activity of this gene have been observed in a number of human cancers. There are pseudogenes for this gene on chromosomes 2 and 17. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000082074	 The protein encoded by this gene is an adapter for the FYN protein and LCP2 signaling cascades in T-cells. The encoded protein is involved in platelet activation and controls the expression of interleukin-2. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000065989	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family, and PDE4 subfamily. This PDE hydrolyzes the second messenger, cAMP, which is a regulator and mediator of a number of cellular responses to extracellular signals. Thus, by regulating the cellular concentration of cAMP, this protein plays a key role in many important physiological processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000074266	 This gene encodes a member of the Polycomb-group (PcG) family. PcG family members form multimeric protein complexes, which are involved in maintaining the transcriptional repressive state of genes over successive cell generations. This protein interacts with enhancer of zeste 2, the cytoplasmic tail of integrin beta7, immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) MA protein, and histone deacetylase proteins. This protein mediates repression of gene activity through histone deacetylation, and may act as a specific regulator of integrin function. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000118418	 Thyroid hormone receptors are hormone-dependent transcription factors that regulate expression of a variety of specific target genes. The protein encoded by this gene binds thyroid hormone receptor beta, but only in the presence of thyroid hormone. The encoded protein, a member of the HMGN protein family, is thought to reduce the compactness of the chromatin fiber in nucleosomes, thereby enhancing transcription from chromatin templates. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000196470	 This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the seven in absentia homolog (SIAH) family. The protein is an E3 ligase and is involved in ubiquitination and proteasome-mediated degradation of specific proteins. The activity of this ubiquitin ligase has been implicated in the development of certain forms of Parkinson's disease, the regulation of the cellular response to hypoxia and induction of apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in several additional transcript variants, some encoding different isoforms and others that have not been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000121390	 This gene encodes a nucleolar protein that localizes to punctate subnuclear structures that occur close to splicing speckles, known as paraspeckles. These paraspeckles are composed of RNA-protein structures that include a non-coding RNA, NEAT1/Men epsilon/beta, and the Drosophila Behavior Human Splicing family of proteins, which include the product of this gene and the P54NRB/NONO and PSF/SFPQ proteins. Paraspeckles may function in the control of gene expression via an RNA nuclear retention mechanism. The protein encoded by this gene is found in paraspeckles in transcriptionally active cells, but it localizes to unique cap structures at the nucleolar periphery when RNA polymerase II transcription is inhibited, or during telophase. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene, which is also located on chromosome 13, has been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000170037	 This gene encodes a centrosomal protein that interacts with BRCA2, and is required for centriole duplication and cytokinesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000135439	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the centaurin gamma-like family. It mediates anti-apoptotic effects of nerve growth factor by activating nuclear phosphoinositide 3-kinase. It is overexpressed in cancer cells, and promotes cancer cell invasion. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000163564	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the HIN-200 family of interferon-inducible proteins that share a 200-amino acid signature motif at their C-termini. HIN200 proteins are primarily nuclear and are involved in transcriptional regulation of genes important for cell cycle control, differentiation, and apoptosis. Downregulation of this gene is associated with breast cancer. This protein acts as a tumor suppressor by promoting ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of MDM2, which leads to stabilization of p53/TP53. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000140961	 This gene encodes an oxidative stress response protein that regulates cell death. Expression of the gene is regulated by p53 and is induced by DNA damage. The protein regulates apoptosis by inducing cytochrome c release from mitochondria. It also appears to be a key regulator of both inflammatory and anti-inflammatory molecules. The loss of this protein correlates with uncontrolled cell growth and tumor formation. Naturally occurring read-through transcription exists between this gene and the neighboring upstream malonyl-CoA decarboxylase (MLYCD) gene, but the read-through transcripts are unlikely to produce a protein product. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000100429	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the histone deacetylase family, members of which deacetylate lysine residues on the N-terminal part of the core histones. Histone deacetylation modulates chromatin structure, and plays an important role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000163497	 This gene belongs to the ETS transcription factor family. ETS family members have a highly conserved 85-amino acid ETS domain that binds purine-rich DNA sequences. The alanine-rich C-terminus of this gene indicates that it may act as a transcription repressor. This gene is exclusively expressed in neurons of the central serotonin (5-HT) system, a system implicated in the pathogeny of such psychiatric diseases as depression, anxiety, and eating disorders. In some types of Ewing tumors, this gene is fused to the Ewing sarcoma (EWS) gene following chromosome translocations. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000099889	 Armadillo Repeat gene deleted in Velo-Cardio-Facial syndrome (ARVCF) is a member of the catenin family. This family plays an important role in the formation of adherens junction complexes, which are thought to facilitate communication between the inside and outside environments of a cell. The ARVCF gene was isolated in the search for the genetic defect responsible for the autosomal dominant Velo-Cardio-Facial syndrome (VCFS), a relatively common human disorder with phenotypic features including cleft palate, conotruncal heart defects and facial dysmorphology. The ARVCF gene encodes a protein containing two motifs, a coiled coil domain in the N-terminus and a 10 armadillo repeat sequence in the midregion. Since these sequences can facilitate protein-protein interactions ARVCF is thought to function in a protein complex. In addition, ARVCF contains a predicted nuclear-targeting sequence suggesting that it may have a function as a nuclear protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000138463	 This gene encodes a membrane-bound protein from the major facilitator superfamily of transporters. Disruption of this gene by translocation has been associated with haplo-insufficiency and renal cell carcinomas. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not yet been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000161860	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of the synaptonemal complex formed between homologous chromosomes during meiotic prophase. The encoded protein associates with SYCP1 and SYCE1 and is found only where chromosome cores are synapsed. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000258429	 Protein synthesis proceeds after formylation of methionine by methionyl-tRNA formyl transferase (FMT) and transfer of the charged initiator f-met tRNA to the ribosome. In eubacteria and eukaryotic organelles the product of this gene, peptide deformylase (PDF), removes the formyl group from the initiating methionine of nascent peptides. In eubacteria, deformylation of nascent peptides is required for subsequent cleavage of initiating methionines by methionine aminopeptidase. The discovery that a natural inhibitor of PDF, actinonin, acts as an antimicrobial agent in some bacteria has spurred intensive research into the design of bacterial-specific PDF inhibitors. In human cells, only mitochondrial proteins have N-formylation of initiating methionines. Protein inhibitors of PDF or siRNAs of PDF block the growth of cancer cell lines but have no effect on normal cell growth. In humans, PDF function may therefore be restricted to rapidly growing cells. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000145217	 This gene is a member of a family of sulfate/anion transporter genes. Family members are well conserved in their genomic (number and size of exons) and protein (aa length among species) structures, but have markedly different tissue expression patterns. This gene is primarily expressed in the liver, pancreas, and brain. Three splice variants that encode different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115318	 This gene encodes a member of the lysyl oxidase gene family. The prototypic member of the family is essential to the biogenesis of connective tissue, encoding an extracellular copper-dependent amine oxidase that catalyses the first step in the formation of crosslinks in collagens and elastin. A highly conserved amino acid sequence at the C-terminus end appears to be sufficient for amine oxidase activity, suggesting that each family member may retain this function. The N-terminus is poorly conserved and may impart additional roles in developmental regulation, senescence, tumor suppression, cell growth control, and chemotaxis to each member of the family. Alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been reported but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145029	 This protein encoded by this gene localizes to the nucleus and is expressed in numerous tissues including brain, testis, liver, and kidney. This refseq contains genomic sequence in its 3' UTR which is not supported by experimental evidence. Computer predictions indicate that this region of the 3' UTR contains hairpin-forming self-complementary sequence which is possibly excised after transcription. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome X. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125505	 This gene encodes a member of the membrane-bound O-acyltransferases family of integral membrane proteins that have acyltransferase activity. The encoded protein is a lysophosphatidylinositol acyltransferase that has specificity for arachidonoyl-CoA as an acyl donor. This protein is involved in the reacylation of phospholipids as part of the phospholipid remodeling pathway known as the Land cycle. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000186204	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein likely localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. When expressed in yeast the enzyme is capable of oxdizing arachidonic acid; however, its physiological function has not been determined. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000023228	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the complex I 75 kDa subunit family. Mammalian complex I is composed of 45 different subunits. It locates at the mitochondrial inner membrane. This protein has NADH dehydrogenase activity and oxidoreductase activity. It transfers electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone. This protein is the largest subunit of complex I and it is a component of the iron-sulfur (IP) fragment of the enzyme. It may form part of the active site crevice where NADH is oxidized. Mutations in this gene are associated with complex I deficiency. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000259207	 The ITGB3 protein product is the integrin beta chain beta 3. Integrins are integral cell-surface proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain. A given chain may combine with multiple partners resulting in different integrins. Integrin beta 3 is found along with the alpha IIb chain in platelets. Integrins are known to participate in cell adhesion as well as cell-surface mediated signalling. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186716	 A reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 22 and 9 produces the Philadelphia chromosome, which is often found in patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia. The chromosome 22 breakpoint for this translocation is located within the BCR gene. The translocation produces a fusion protein which is encoded by sequence from both BCR and ABL, the gene at the chromosome 9 breakpoint. Although the BCR-ABL fusion protein has been extensively studied, the function of the normal BCR gene product is not clear. The protein has serine/threonine kinase activity and is a GTPase-activating protein for p21rac. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000234745	 HLA-B belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues. This class I molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain and a light chain (beta-2 microglobulin). The heavy chain is anchored in the membrane. Class I molecules play a central role in the immune system by presenting peptides derived from the endoplasmic reticulum lumen. They are expressed in nearly all cells. The heavy chain is approximately 45 kDa and its gene contains 8 exons. Exon 1 encodes the leader peptide, exon 2 and 3 encode the alpha1 and alpha2 domains, which both bind the peptide, exon 4 encodes the alpha3 domain, exon 5 encodes the transmembrane region and exons 6 and 7 encode the cytoplasmic tail. Polymorphisms within exon 2 and exon 3 are responsible for the peptide binding specificity of each class one molecule. Typing for these polymorphisms is routinely done for bone marrow and kidney transplantation. Hundreds of HLA-B alleles have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169599	 This gene encodes a protein that is localized to mitochondria and plays a critical role in iron-sulfur cluster biogenesis. The encoded protein assembles and transfers 4Fe-4S clusters to target apoproteins including succinate dehydrogenase and lipoic acid synthase. Mutations in this gene are a cause of multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome-1, and pseudogenes of this gene are located on the short arms of chromosomes 1 and 3. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000164619	 This gene encodes a secreted protein that interacts with, and inhibits bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) function. It has been shown to inhibit BMP2- and BMP4-dependent osteoblast differentiation and BMP-dependent differentiation of the chondrogenic cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with a lethal skeletal disorder, diaphanospondylodysostosis. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000148842	 This gene encodes a member of the ancient conserved domain containing protein family. Members of this protein family contain a cyclin box motif and have structural similarity to the cyclins. The encoded protein may play an important role in magnesium homeostasis by mediating the epithelial transport and renal reabsorption of Mg2+. Mutations in this gene are associated with renal hypomagnesemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000179774	 This intronless gene encodes a member of the basic helix-loop-helix family of transcription factors, with similarity to Drosophila atonal gene that controls photoreceptor development. Studies in mice suggest that this gene plays a central role in retinal ganglion cell and optic nerve formation. Mutations in this gene are associated with nonsyndromic congenital retinal nonattachment. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000106819	 This gene encodes a cartilage extracellular protein that is member of the small leucine-rich proteoglycan family. The encoded protein may regulate chondrogenesis by inhibiting transforming growth factor-beta 1-induced gene expression in cartilage. This protein also binds collagen and calcium and may induce collagen mineralization. Polymorphisms in the aspartic acid repeat region of this gene are associated with a susceptibility to osteoarthritis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000103356	 Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family and catalyzes the attachment of glutamate to tRNA(Glu). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000170917	 This gene overlaps and lies on the opposite strand from FGF2 gene, and is thought to be the FGF2 antisense gene. The two genes are independently transcribed, and their expression shows an inverse relationship, suggesting that this antisense transcript may regulate FGF2 expression. This gene has also been shown to have hormone-regulatory and antiproliferative actions in the pituitary that are independent of FGF2 expression. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000114790	 This gene encodes a member of the Rho-guanine nucleotide exchange factor (Rho-GEF) family. These proteins regulate Rho GTPases by catalyzing the exchange of GDP for GTP. The encoded protein specifically activates RhoG and plays a role in the promotion of macropinocytosis. Underexpression of the encoded protein may be a predictive marker of chemoresistant disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000003756	 This gene is a candidate tumor suppressor gene which encodes a nuclear RNA binding protein that is a component of the spliceosome A complex. The encoded protein plays a role in the induction of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis through pre-mRNA splicing of multiple target genes including the tumor suppressor protein p53. This gene is located within the tumor suppressor region 3p21.3, and may play a role in the inhibition of tumor transformation and progression of several malignancies including lung cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000120471	 This gene is specifically expressed in the thymus, and encodes a protein that is localized to the mitochondrion. The expression of this gene is inducible by p53, and it is thought to play an important role in mediating p53-dependent apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000185630	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein that belongs to the PBX homeobox family of transcriptional factors. Studies in mice suggest that this gene may be involved in the regulation of osteogenesis, and required for skeletal patterning and programming. A chromosomal translocation, t(1;19) involving this gene and TCF3/E2A gene, is associated with pre-B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The resulting fusion protein, in which the DNA binding domain of E2A is replaced by the DNA binding domain of this protein, transforms cells by constitutively activating transcription of genes regulated by the PBX protein family. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000114861	 This gene belongs to subfamily P of the forkhead box (FOX) transcription factor family. Forkhead box transcription factors play important roles in the regulation of tissue- and cell type-specific gene transcription during both development and adulthood. Forkhead box P1 protein contains both DNA-binding- and protein-protein binding-domains. This gene may act as a tumor suppressor as it is lost in several tumor types and maps to a chromosomal region (3p14.1) reported to contain a tumor suppressor gene(s). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143437	 The aryl hydrocarbon (Ah) receptor is involved in the induction of several enzymes that participate in xenobiotic metabolism. The ligand-free, cytosolic form of the Ah receptor is complexed to heat shock protein 90. Binding of ligand, which includes dioxin and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, results in translocation of the ligand-binding subunit only to the nucleus. Induction of enzymes involved in xenobiotic metabolism occurs through binding of the ligand-bound Ah receptor to xenobiotic responsive elements in the promoters of genes for these enzymes. This gene encodes a protein that forms a complex with the ligand-bound Ah receptor, and is required for receptor function. The encoded protein has also been identified as the beta subunit of a heterodimeric transcription factor, hypoxia-inducible factor 1. A t(1;12)(q21;p13) translocation, which results in a TEL-ARNT fusion protein, is associated with acute myeloblastic leukemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000165588	 This gene encodes a member of the bicoid subfamily of homeodomain-containing transcription factors. The encoded protein acts as a transcription factor and plays a role in brain, craniofacial, and sensory organ development. The encoded protein also influences the proliferation and differentiation of dopaminergic neuronal progenitor cells during mitosis. Mutations in this gene cause syndromic microphthalmia 5 (MCOPS5) and combined pituitary hormone deficiency 6 (CPHD6). This gene is also suspected of having an oncogenic role in medulloblastoma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Pseudogenes of this gene are known to exist on chromosomes two and nine. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000141469	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane transporter that mediates urea transport in erythrocytes. This gene forms the basis for the Kidd blood group system. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000181090	 The protein encoded by this gene is a histone methyltransferase that is part of the E2F6 complex, which represses transcription. The encoded protein methylates the Lys-9 position of histone H3, which tags it for transcriptional repression. This protein may be involved in the silencing of MYC- and E2F-responsive genes and therefore could play a role in the G0/G1 cell cycle transition. Defects in this gene are a cause of chromosome 9q subtelomeric deletion syndrome (9q-syndrome). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000153283	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily. It is a type I membrane protein. The protein may play a role in the adhesive interactions of activated T and NK cells during the late phase of the immune response. It may also function in antigen presentation. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148584	 Mammalian apolipoprotein B mRNA undergoes site-specific C to U deamination, which is mediated by a multi-component enzyme complex containing a minimal core composed of APOBEC-1 and a complementation factor encoded by this gene. The gene product has three non-identical RNA recognition motifs and belongs to the hnRNP R family of RNA-binding proteins. It has been proposed that this complementation factor functions as an RNA-binding subunit and docks APOBEC-1 to deaminate the upstream cytidine. Studies suggest that the protein may also be involved in other RNA editing or RNA processing events. Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000151150	 Ankyrins are a family of proteins that are believed to link the integral membrane proteins to the underlying spectrin-actin cytoskeleton and play key roles in activities such as cell motility, activation, proliferation, contact, and the maintenance of specialized membrane domains. Multiple isoforms of ankyrin with different affinities for various target proteins are expressed in a tissue-specific, developmentally regulated manner. Most ankyrins are typically composed of three structural domains: an amino-terminal domain containing multiple ankyrin repeats; a central region with a highly conserved spectrin binding domain; and a carboxy-terminal regulatory domain which is the least conserved and subject to variation. Ankyrin 3 is an immunologically distinct gene product from ankyrins 1 and 2, and was originally found at the axonal initial segment and nodes of Ranvier of neurons in the central and peripheral nervous systems. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000164068	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a C-terminal RING finger domain, a motif present in a variety of functionally distinct proteins and known to be involved in protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions, and an N-terminal SPRY domain. This protein displays E3 ubiquitin ligase activity toward the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1B which is also known as p27 or KIP1. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000178252	 This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. The encoded protein interacts with serine/threonine kinase 11, and is implicated in cell growth arrest. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000166402	 This gene encodes a member of the Tubby family of bipartite transcription factors. The encoded protein may play a role in obesity and sensorineural degradation. The crystal structure has been determined for a similar protein in mouse, and it functions as a membrane-bound transcription regulator that translocates to the nucleus in response to phosphoinositide hydrolysis. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000215788	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor is expressed preferentially in the tissues enriched in lymphocytes, and it may play a role in regulating lymphocyte homeostasis. This receptor has been shown to stimulate NF-kappa B activity and regulate cell apoptosis. The signal transduction of this receptor is mediated by various death domain containing adaptor proteins. Knockout studies in mice suggested the role of this gene in the removal of self-reactive T cells in the thymus. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported, most of which are potentially secreted molecules. The alternative splicing of this gene in B and T cells encounters a programmed change upon T-cell activation, which predominantly produces full-length, membrane bound isoforms, and is thought to be involved in controlling lymphocyte proliferation induced by T-cell activation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000111907	 This gene encodes a member of the tumor protein D52 (TPD52) family. The encoded protein contains a coiled-coil domain and may form homo- or hetero-dimer with TPD52 family members. The protein is reported to be involved in cell proliferation and calcium signaling. It also interacts with the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 5 (MAP3K5/ASK1) and positively regulates MAP3K5-induced apoptosis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed, but the full-length nature of some variants has not yet been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148334	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-associated prostaglandin E synthase, which catalyzes the conversion of prostaglandin H2 to prostaglandin E2. This protein also has been shown to activate the transcription regulated by a gamma-interferon-activated transcription element (GATE). Multiple transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000185658	 This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD) residues which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. This protein contains 2 bromodomains and multiple WD repeats. This gene is located within the Down syndrome region-2 on chromosome 21. Alternative splicing of this gene generates multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. In mouse, this gene encodes a nuclear protein that has a polyglutamine-containing region that functions as a transcriptional activation domain which may regulate chromatin remodelling and associates with a component of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodelling complex.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000119688	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal import of fatty acids and/or fatty acyl-CoAs in the organelle. All known peroxisomal ABC transporters are half transporters which require a partner half transporter molecule to form a functional homodimeric or heterodimeric transporter. The function of this peroxisomal membrane protein is unknown. However, it is speculated that it may function as a heterodimer for another peroxisomal ABC transporter and, therefore, may modify the adrenoleukodystrophy phenotype. It may also play a role in the process of peroxisome biogenesis. Alternative splicing results in at least two different transcript variants, one which is protein-coding and one which is probably not protein-coding. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196735	 HLA-DQA1 belongs to the HLA class II alpha chain paralogues. The class II molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha (DQA) and a beta chain (DQB), both anchored in the membrane. It plays a central role in the immune system by presenting peptides derived from extracellular proteins. Class II molecules are expressed in antigen presenting cells (APC: B Lymphocytes, dendritic cells, macrophages). The alpha chain is approximately 33-35 kDa. It is encoded by 5 exons; exon 1 encodes the leader peptide, exons 2 and 3 encode the two extracellular domains, and exon 4 encodes the transmembrane domain and the cytoplasmic tail. Within the DQ molecule both the alpha chain and the beta chain contain the polymorphisms specifying the peptide binding specificities, resulting in up to four different molecules. Typing for these polymorphisms is routinely done for bone marrow transplantation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148339	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of calcium-binding mitochondrial carriers, with a characteristic mitochondrial carrier domain at the C-terminus. These proteins are found in the inner membranes of mitochondria, and function as transport proteins. They shuttle metabolites, nucleotides and cofactors through the mitochondrial membrane and thereby connect and/or regulate cytoplasm and matrix functions. This protein may function as an ATP-Mg/Pi carrier that mediates the transport of Mg-ATP in exchange for phosphate, and likely responsible for the net uptake or efflux of adenine nucleotides into or from the mitochondria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms with a common C-terminus but variable N-termini have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000185803	 This gene encodes a membrane protein which belongs to the riboflavin transporter family. In humans, riboflavin must be obtained by intestinal absorption because it cannot be synthesized by the body. The water-soluble vitamin riboflavin is processed to the coenzymes flavin mononucleotide (FMN) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) which then act as intermediaries in many cellular metabolic reactions. Paralogous members of the riboflavin transporter gene family are located on chromosomes 17 and 20. Unlike other members of this family, this gene has higher expression in brain tissue than small intestine. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome 2 - an autosomal recessive progressive neurologic disorder characterized by deafness, bulbar dysfunction, and axial and limb hypotonia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000137601	 The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine kinase involved in cell cycle regulation. The encoded protein is found in a centrosomal complex with FEZ1, a neuronal protein that plays a role in axonal development. Defects in this gene are a cause of polycystic kidney disease (PKD). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000133149	 This gene is similar to a mouse gene that is expressed in the testis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196584	 This gene encodes a member of the RecA/Rad51-related protein family that participates in homologous recombination to maintain chromosome stability and repair DNA damage. This gene is involved in the repair of DNA double-strand breaks by homologous recombination and it functionally complements Chinese hamster irs1, a repair-deficient mutant that exhibits hypersensitivity to a number of different DNA-damaging agents. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196188	 The protein encoded by this gene is a gastric aspartyl protease that functions as a disulfide-linked homodimer. This protease, which is a member of the peptidase C1 family, has a specificity similar to that of pepsin A and cathepsin D. It is an intracellular proteinase that does not appear to be involved in the digestion of dietary protein and is found in highest concentration in the surface of epithelial mucus-producing cells of the stomach. It is the first aspartic proteinase expressed in the fetal stomach and is found in more than half of gastric cancers. It appears, therefore, to be an oncofetal antigen. Transcript variants utilizing alternative polyadenylation signals and two transcript variants encoding different isoforms exist for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188488	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serpin family of proteins, a group of proteins that inhibit serine proteases. This gene is one in a cluster of serpin genes located on the q arm of chromosome 14. This family member is a glycoprotein that can inhibit several serine proteases, including protein C and various plasminogen activators and kallikreins, and it thus plays diverse roles in hemostasis and thrombosis in multiple organs. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000110844	 This gene encodes a WW-domain containing protein similar to yeast splicing factor PRP40. This protein has been shown to interact with Huntingtin and MeCP2. Alternative splicing results in different transcriptional variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000095303	 This is one of two genes encoding similar enzymes that catalyze the conversion of arachinodate to prostaglandin. The encoded protein regulates angiogenesis in endothelial cells, and is inhibited by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as aspirin. The protein may promote cell proliferation during tumor progression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000161547	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/arginine (SR)-rich family of pre-mRNA splicing factors, which constitute part of the spliceosome. Each of these factors contains an RNA recognition motif (RRM) for binding RNA and an RS domain for binding other proteins. The RS domain is rich in serine and arginine residues and facilitates interaction between different SR splicing factors. In addition to being critical for mRNA splicing, the SR proteins have also been shown to be involved in mRNA export from the nucleus and in translation. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein and one non-coding transcript variant have been found for this gene. In addition, a pseudogene of this gene has been found on chromosome 11. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000135919	 This gene encodes a member of the serpin family of proteins, a group of proteins that inhibit serine proteases. Thrombin, urokinase, plasmin and trypsin are among the proteases that this family member can inhibit. This gene is a susceptibility gene for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and for emphysema. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000181104	 Coagulation factor II receptor is a 7-transmembrane receptor involved in the regulation of thrombotic response. Proteolytic cleavage leads to the activation of the receptor.  F2R is a G-protein coupled receptor family member. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000078900	 This gene encodes a member of the p53 family of transcription factors involved in cellular responses to stress and development. It maps to a region on chromosome 1p36 that is frequently deleted in neuroblastoma and other tumors, and thought to contain multiple tumor suppressor genes. The demonstration that this gene is monoallelically expressed (likely from the maternal allele), supports the notion that it is a candidate gene for neuroblastoma. Many transcript variants resulting from alternative splicing and/or use of alternate promoters have been found for this gene, but the biological validity and the full-length nature of some variants have not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000204351	 DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, which is a human homologue of yeast SKI2 and may be involved in antiviral activity by blocking translation of poly(A) deficient mRNAs. This gene is located in the class III region of the major histocompatibility complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000188888	 This gene encodes a member of the glutamate receptor subfamily of G protein-coupled receptors. The encoded protein has an EGF-like calcium binding domain and a seven transmembrane domain in the N-terminal region of the protein. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital stationary night blindness type 1E. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000131795	 This gene encodes a protein with a conserved RNA-binding motif. The protein is found predominantly in the nucleus, although it is also present in the cytoplasm. It is preferentially associated with mRNAs produced by splicing, including both nuclear mRNAs and newly exported cytoplasmic mRNAs. It is thought that the protein remains associated with spliced mRNAs as a tag to indicate where introns had been present, thus coupling pre- and post-mRNA splicing events. Previously, it was thought that two genes encode this protein, RBM8A and RBM8B; it is now thought that the RBM8B locus is a pseudogene. Two alternative start codons result in two forms of the protein, and this gene also uses multiple polyadenylation sites. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000088386	 This gene encodes an intestinal hydrogen peptide cotransporter that is a member of the solute carrier family 15. The encoded protein is localized to the brush border membrane of the intestinal epithelium and mediates the uptake of di- and tripeptides from the lumen into the enterocytes. This protein plays an important role in the uptake and digestion of dietary proteins. This protein also facilitates the absorption of numerous peptidomimetic drugs. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000204644	 The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger protein containing a KRAB domain. Studies in mouse suggest that this protein may function as a transcriptional repressor. Mutations in this gene have been associated with transient neonatal diabetes mellitus type 1 (TNDM1).[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000182173	 This gene encodes a subunit of the tRNA splicing endonuclease complex, which catalyzes the removal of introns from precursor tRNAs. The complex is also implicated in pre-mRNA 3-prime end processing. Mutations in this gene result in pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 2.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000136944	 This gene encodes a member of LIM-homeodomain family of proteins containing two N-terminal zinc-binding LIM domains, 1 homeodomain, and a C-terminal glutamine-rich domain. It functions as a transcription factor, and is essential for the normal development of dorsal limb structures, the glomerular basement membrane, the anterior segment of the eye, and dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons. Mutations in this gene are associated with nail-patella syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000245848	 The protein encoded by this intronless gene is a bZIP transcription factor which can bind as a homodimer to certain promoters and enhancers. It can also form heterodimers with the related proteins CEBP-beta and CEBP-gamma. The encoded protein has been shown to bind to the promoter and modulate the expression of the gene encoding leptin, a protein that plays an important role in body weight homeostasis. Also, the encoded protein can interact with CDK2 and CDK4, thereby inhibiting these kinases and causing growth arrest in cultured cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000075142	 This gene encodes a calcium-binding protein with multiple E-F hand domains that relocates from the cytoplasm to the sarcoplasmic reticulum in response to elevated calcium levels. In addition to regulating intracellular calcium homeostasis it also modulates excitation-contraction coupling in the heart. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct proteins. Multiple pseudogenes exist for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000101384	 The jagged 1 protein encoded by JAG1 is the human homolog of the Drosophilia jagged protein.  Human jagged 1 is the ligand for the receptor notch 1, the latter a human homolog of the Drosophilia jagged receptor notch.  Mutations that alter the jagged 1 protein cause Alagille syndrome.  Jagged 1 signalling through notch 1 has also been shown to play a role in hematopoiesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187010	 The Rh blood group system is the second most clinically significant of the blood groups, second only to ABO. It is also the most polymorphic of the blood groups, with variations due to deletions, gene conversions, and missense mutations. The Rh blood group includes this gene, which encodes the RhD protein, and a second gene that encodes both the RhC and RhE antigens on a single polypeptide. The two genes, and a third unrelated gene, are found in a cluster on chromosome 1. The classification of Rh-positive and Rh-negative individuals is determined by the presence or absence of the highly immunogenic RhD protein on the surface of erythrocytes. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198400	 This gene encodes a member of the neurotrophic tyrosine kinase receptor (NTKR) family. This kinase is a membrane-bound receptor that, upon neurotrophin binding, phosphorylates itself and members of the MAPK pathway. The presence of this kinase leads to cell differentiation and may play a role in specifying sensory neuron subtypes. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital insensitivity to pain, anhidrosis, self-mutilating behavior, mental retardation and cancer. Alternate transcriptional splice variants of this gene have been found, but only three have been characterized to date. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000174371	 This gene encodes a protein with 5' to 3' exonuclease activity as well as an RNase H activity. It is similar to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein Exo1 which interacts with Msh2 and which is involved in mismatch repair and recombination. Alternative splicing of this gene results in three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000111700	 This gene encodes a liver-specific member of the organic anion transporter family. The encoded protein is a transmembrane receptor that mediates the sodium-independent uptake of endogenous and xenobiotic compounds and plays a critical role in bile acid and bilirubin transport. Mutations in this gene are a cause of Rotor type hyperbilirubinemia. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000168000	 This gene encodes the multi-pass transmembrane protein protein seipin. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and may be important for lipid droplet morphology. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital generalized lipodystrophy type 2 or Berardinelli-Seip syndrome, a rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by a near absence of adipose tissue and severe insulin resistance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Naturally occurring read-through transcription occurs between this locus and the neighboring locus HNRNPUL2 (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U-like 2).[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000077549	 This gene encodes the beta subunit of the barbed-end actin binding protein, which belongs to the F-actin capping protein family. The capping protein is a heterodimeric actin capping protein that blocks actin filament assembly and disassembly at the fast growing (barbed) filament ends and functions in regulating actin filament dynamics as well as in stabilizing actin filament lengths in muscle and nonmuscle cells. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000134138	 This gene encodes a homeobox protein belonging to the TALE ('three amino acid loop extension') family of homeodomain-containing proteins. TALE homeobox proteins are highly conserved transcription regulators, and several members have been shown to be essential contributors to developmental programs. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171385	 Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes - shaker, shaw, shab, and shal - have been identified in Drosophila, and each has been shown to have human homolog(s). This gene encodes a member of the potassium channel, voltage-gated, shal-related subfamily, members of which form voltage-activated A-type potassium ion channels and are prominent in the repolarization phase of the action potential. This member includes two isoforms with different sizes, which are encoded by alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000161405	 This gene encodes a member of the Ikaros family of zinc-finger proteins. Three members of this protein family (Ikaros, Aiolos and Helios) are hematopoietic-specific transcription factors involved in the regulation of lymphocyte development. This gene product is a transcription factor that is important in the regulation of B lymphocyte proliferation and differentiation. Both Ikaros and Aiolos can participate in chromatin remodeling. Regulation of gene expression in B lymphocytes by Aiolos is complex as it appears to require the sequential formation of Ikaros homodimers, Ikaros/Aiolos heterodimers, and Aiolos homodimers. Several alternative transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described, as well as some non-protein coding variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000185507	 IRF7 encodes interferon regulatory factor 7, a member of the interferon regulatory transcription factor (IRF) family. IRF7 has been shown to play a role in the transcriptional activation of virus-inducible cellular genes, including interferon beta chain genes. Inducible expression of IRF7 is largely restricted to lymphoid tissue. Multiple IRF7 transcript variants have been identified, although the functional consequences of these have not yet been established. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204681	 Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system. GABA exerts its effects through ionotropic [GABA(A/C)] receptors, to produce fast synaptic inhibition, and metabotropic [GABA(B)] receptors, to produce slow, prolonged inhibitory signals. The GABA(B) receptor consists of a heterodimer of two related 7-transmembrane receptors, GABA(B) receptor 1 and GABA(B) receptor 2. The GABA(B) receptor 1 gene is mapped to chromosome 6p21.3 within the HLA class I region close to the HLA-F gene. Susceptibility loci for multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, and schizophrenia have also been mapped in this region. Alternative splicing of this gene generates multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000197993	 This gene encodes a type II transmembrane glycoprotein that is the highly polymorphic Kell blood group antigen. The Kell glycoprotein links via a single disulfide bond to the XK membrane protein that carries the Kx antigen. The encoded protein contains sequence and structural similarity to members of the neprilysin (M13) family of zinc endopeptidases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the K*00101 allele. 
ENSG00000197943	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane signaling enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 1-phosphatidyl-1D-myo-inositol 4,5-bisphosphate to 1D-myo-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) and diacylglycerol (DAG), using calcium as a cofactor. IP3 and DAG are second messenger molecules important for transmitting signals from growth factor receptors and immune system receptors across the cell membrane. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000125388	 This gene encodes a member of the guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptor kinase subfamily of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. The protein phosphorylates the activated forms of G protein-coupled receptors thus initiating its deactivation. This gene has been linked to both genetic and acquired hypertension. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165349	 This gene encodes a member of the solute carrier family 7. The encoded protein is a sodium-independent cationic amino acid transporter. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcripts that encoded the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000247746	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL590410.13. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000123607	 This gene encodes a member of TTC21 family, containing several tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domains. This protein is localized to the cilium axoneme, and may play a role in retrograde intraflagellar transport in cilia. Mutations in this gene are associated with various ciliopathies, nephronophthisis 12, and asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy 4. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000221818	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the COE (Collier/Olf/EBF) family of non-basic, helix-loop-helix transcription factors that have a well conserved DNA binding domain. The COE family proteins play an important role in variety of developmental processes. Studies in mouse suggest that this gene may be involved in the differentiation of osteoblasts. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000166833	 This gene encodes a member of the neuron navigator gene family, which may play a role in cellular growth and migration. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000196531	 The protein encoded by this gene associates with basic transcription factor 3 (BTF3) to form the nascent polypeptide-associated complex (NAC). NAC binds to nascent proteins as they emerge from the ribosome, blocking interaction with the signal recognition particle (SRP) and preventing mistranslocation to the endoplasmic reticulum. However, nascent proteins with an exposed signal peptide will not be bound by the encoded protein, enabling them to bind the SRP and enter the secretory pathway. This protein has been determined to be an IgE autoantigen in atopic dermatitis patients. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000168214	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulator important in the Notch signaling pathway. The encoded protein acts as a repressor when not bound to Notch proteins and an activator when bound to Notch proteins. It is thought to function by recruiting chromatin remodeling complexes containing histone deacetylase or histone acetylase proteins to Notch signaling pathway genes. Also, this protein can bind specifically to the recombination signal sequence of immunglobulin kappa type J segments. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, and several pseudogenes of this gene exist on chromosome 9. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000158270	 This gene encodes a member of the C-lectin family, proteins that possess collagen-like sequences and carbohydrate recognition domains. This protein is a scavenger receptor, a cell surface glycoprotein that displays several functions associated with host defense. It can bind to carbohydrate antigens on microorganisms, facilitating their recognition and removal. It also mediates the recognition, internalization, and degradation of oxidatively modified low density lipoprotein by vascular endothelial cells. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000196914	 Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processes that are initiated by extracellular stimuli working through G protein-coupled receptors. The encoded protein may form a complex with G proteins and stimulate Rho-dependent signals. This protein has been observed to form a myeloid/lymphoid fusion partner in acute myeloid leukemia. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000031544	 This protein is part of a large family of nuclear receptor transcription factors involved in signaling pathways. Nuclear receptors have been shown to regulate pathways involved in embryonic development, as well as in maintenance of proper cell function in adults. Members of this family are characterized by discrete domains that function in DNA and ligand binding. This gene encodes a retinal nuclear receptor that is a ligand-dependent transcription factor. Defects in this gene are a cause of enhanced S cone syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105398	 This gene encodes a member of the sulfotransferase family. Sulfotransferases aid in the metabolism of drugs and endogenous compounds by converting these substances into more hydrophilic water-soluble sulfate conjugates that can be easily excreted. This protein catalyzes the sulfation of steroids and bile acids in the liver and adrenal glands, and may have a role in the inherited adrenal androgen excess in women with polycystic ovary syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000155846	 The protein encoded by this gene stimulates the activity of several transcription factors and nuclear receptors, including estrogen receptor alpha, nuclear respiratory factor 1, and glucocorticoid receptor. The encoded protein may be involved in fat oxidation, non-oxidative glucose metabolism, and the regulation of energy expenditure. This protein is downregulated in prediabetic and type 2 diabetes mellitus patients. Certain allelic variations in this gene increase the risk of the development of obesity. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000134532	 This gene encodes a member of the SOX (SRY-related HMG-box) family of transcription factors involved in the regulation of embryonic development and in the determination of the cell fate. The encoded protein may act as a transcriptional regulator after forming a protein complex with other proteins. The encoded protein may play a role in chondrogenesis. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 8. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000142798	 This gene encodes the perlecan protein, which consists of a core protein to which three long chains of glycosaminoglycans (heparan sulfate or chondroitin sulfate) are attached. The perlecan protein is a large multidomain proteoglycan that binds to and cross-links many extracellular matrix components and cell-surface molecules. It has been shown that this protein interacts with laminin, prolargin, collagen type IV, FGFBP1, FBLN2, FGF7 and Transthyretin, etc. and plays essential roles in multiple biological activities. Perlecan is a key component of the vascular extracellular matrix, where it helps to maintain the endothelial barrier function. It is a potent inhibitor of smooth muscle cell proliferation and is thus thought to help maintain vascular homeostasis. It can also promote growth factor (e.g., FGF2) activity and thus stimulate endothelial growth and re-generation. It is a major component of basement membranes, where it is involved in the stabilization of other molecules as well as being involved with glomerular permeability to macromolecules and cell adhesion. Mutations in this gene cause Schwartz-Jampel syndrome type 1, Silverman-Handmaker type of dyssegmental dysplasia, and Tardive dyskinesia.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000108469	 The protein encoded by this gene is a helicase that is important for genome stability. The encoded protein also prevents aberrant homologous recombination by displacing RAD51 from ssDNA. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000067606	 Protein kinase C (PKC) zeta is a member of the PKC family of serine/threonine kinases which are involved in a variety of cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation and secretion. Unlike the classical PKC isoenzymes which are calcium-dependent, PKC zeta exhibits a kinase activity which is independent of calcium and diacylglycerol but not of phosphatidylserine. Furthermore, it is insensitive to typical PKC inhibitors and cannot be activated by phorbol ester. Unlike the classical PKC isoenzymes, it has only a single zinc finger module. These structural and biochemical properties indicate that the zeta subspecies is related to, but distinct from other isoenzymes of PKC. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140538	 This gene encodes a member of the neurotrophic tyrosine receptor kinase (NTRK) family. This kinase is a membrane-bound receptor that, upon neurotrophin binding, phosphorylates itself and members of the MAPK pathway. Signalling through this kinase leads to cell differentiation and may play a role in the development of proprioceptive neurons that sense body position. Mutations in this gene have been associated with medulloblastomas, secretory breast carcinomas and other cancers. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000134262	 This gene encodes a subunit of a heterotetrameric adapter-like complex 4 that is involved in targeting proteins from the trans-Golgi network to the endosomal-lysosomal system. Mutations in this gene are associated with cerebral palsy spastic quadriplegic type 5 (CPSQ5) disorder. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000145321	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the albumin gene family. It is a multifunctional protein found in plasma, ascitic fluid, cerebrospinal fluid and on the surface of many cell types. It binds to vitamin D and its plasma metabolites and transports them to target tissues. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000168282	 The product of this gene is a Golgi enzyme catalyzing an essential step in the conversion of oligomannose to complex N-glycans. The enzyme has the typical glycosyltransferase domains: a short N-terminal cytoplasmic domain, a hydrophobic non-cleavable signal-anchor domain, and a C-terminal catalytic domain. Mutations in this gene may lead to carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome, type II. The coding region of this gene is intronless. Transcript variants with a spliced 5' UTR may exist, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000008056	 This gene is a member of the synapsin gene family. Synapsins encode neuronal phosphoproteins which associate with the cytoplasmic surface of synaptic vesicles. Family members are characterized by common protein domains, and they are implicated in synaptogenesis and the modulation of neurotransmitter release, suggesting a potential role in several neuropsychiatric diseases. This member of the synapsin family plays a role in regulation of axonogenesis and synaptogenesis. The protein encoded serves as a substrate for several different protein kinases and phosphorylation may function in the regulation of this protein in the nerve terminal. Mutations in this gene may be associated with X-linked disorders with primary neuronal degeneration such as Rett syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105220	 This gene belongs to the GPI family whose members encode multifunctional phosphoglucose isomerase proteins involved in energy pathways. The protein encoded by this gene is a dimeric enzyme that catalyzes the reversible isomerization of glucose-6-phosphate and fructose-6-phosphate. The protein functions in different capacities inside and outside the cell. In the cytoplasm, the gene product is involved in glycolysis and gluconeogenesis, while outside the cell it functions as a neurotrophic factor for spinal and sensory neurons. Defects in this gene are the cause of nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia and a severe enzyme deficiency can be associated with hydrops fetalis, immediate neonatal death and neurological impairment. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160293	 VAV2 is the second member of the VAV guanine nucleotide exchange factor family of oncogenes. Unlike VAV1, which is expressed exclusively in hematopoietic cells, VAV2 transcripts were found in most tissues. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000130294	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the kinesin family and functions as an anterograde motor protein that transports membranous organelles along axonal microtubules. Mutations at this locus have been associated with spastic paraplegia-30 and hereditary sensory neuropathy IIC. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000197461	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the platelet-derived growth factor family. The four members of this family are mitogenic factors for cells of mesenchymal origin and are characterized by a motif of eight cysteines. This gene product can exist either as a homodimer or as a heterodimer with the platelet-derived growth factor beta polypeptide, where the dimers are connected by disulfide bonds. Studies using knockout mice have shown cellular defects in oligodendrocytes, alveolar smooth muscle cells, and Leydig cells in the testis; knockout mice die either as embryos or shortly after birth. Two splice variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163141	 The protein encoded by this gene interacts with several other proteins, such as BCL2, ARHGAP1, MIF and GFER. It may function as a bridge molecule between BCL2 and ARHGAP1/CDC42 in promoting cell death. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000104290	 This gene is a member of the frizzled gene family. Members of this family encode seven-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for the wingless type MMTV integration site family of signaling proteins. Most frizzled receptors are coupled to the beta-catenin canonical signaling pathway. The function of this protein is unknown, although it may play a role in mammalian hair follicle development. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. This gene is a susceptibility locus for schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000124006	 Cytoskeletal adaptor proteins function in linking the internal cytoskeleton of cells to the cell membrane. This gene encodes a cytoskeletal adaptor protein, which is a member of the Unc-89/obscurin family. The protein contains multiple N- and C-terminal immunoglobulin (Ig)-like domains and a central fibronectin type 3 domain. Mutations in this gene cause 3M syndrome type 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000221983	 Ubiquitin is a highly conserved nuclear and cytoplasmic protein that has a major role in targeting cellular proteins for degradation by the 26S proteosome. It is also involved in the maintenance of chromatin structure, the regulation of gene expression, and the stress response. Ubiquitin is synthesized as a precursor protein consisting of either polyubiquitin chains or a single ubiquitin moiety fused to an unrelated protein. This gene encodes a fusion protein consisting of ubiquitin at the N terminus and ribosomal protein L40 at the C terminus, a C-terminal extension protein (CEP). Multiple processed pseudogenes derived from this gene are present in the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170017	 This gene encodes activated leukocyte cell adhesion molecule (ALCAM), also known as CD166 (cluster of differentiation 166), which is a member of a subfamily of immunoglobulin receptors with five immunoglobulin-like domains (VVC2C2C2) in the extracellular domain. This protein binds to T-cell differentiation antigene CD6, and is implicated in the processes of cell adhesion and migration. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000081277	 This gene encodes a member of the arm-repeat (armadillo) and plakophilin gene families. Plakophilin proteins contain numerous armadillo repeats, localize to cell desmosomes and nuclei, and participate in linking cadherins to intermediate filaments in the cytoskeleton. This protein may be involved in molecular recruitment and stabilization during desmosome formation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the ectodermal dysplasia/skin fragility syndrome. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000101665	 The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear protein that binds the E3 ubiquitin ligase SMURF2. Upon binding, this complex translocates to the cytoplasm, where it interacts with TGF-beta receptor type-1 (TGFBR1), leading to the degradation of both the encoded protein and TGFBR1. Expression of this gene is induced by TGFBR1. Variations in this gene are a cause of susceptibility to colorectal cancer type 3 (CRCS3). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000104213	 This gene encodes a protein with significant sequence similarity to the ligand binding domain of platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta. Mutations in this gene, or deletion of a chromosomal segment containing this gene, are associated with sporadic hepatocellular carcinomas, colorectal cancers, and non-small cell lung cancers. This suggests this gene product may function as a tumor suppressor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131096	 The protein encoded by this gene is proteolytically processed to release a peptide that inhibits pancreatic secretion and mobility in the gut. Rare variations in this gene could increase susceptibility to obesity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000126107	 The protein encoded by this gene transfers ubiquitin from an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme to targeted substrates, leading to the degradation of those substrates. The encoded protein has been shown to transfer ubiquitin to TRIOBP to facilitate cell cycle progression, and to STX8. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000128298	 The protein encoded by this gene binds phosphoinositides and promotes the formation of planar or curved membrane structures. The encoded protein is found in RAB13-positive vesicles and at intercellular contacts with the plasma membrane. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000165502	 Cytoplasmic ribosomes, organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 60S subunit. The protein, which shares sequence similarity with yeast ribosomal protein L44, belongs to the L44E (L36AE) family of ribosomal proteins. This gene and the human gene officially named ribosomal protein L36a (RPL36A) encode nearly identical proteins; however, they are distinct genes. Although the name of this gene has been referred to as ribosomal protein L36a (RPL36A), its official name is ribosomal protein L36a-like (RPL36AL). As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163794	 This gene is a member of the sauvagine/corticotropin-releasing factor/urotensin I family. It is structurally related to the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) gene and the encoded product is an endogenous ligand for CRF type 2 receptors. In the brain it may be responsible for the effects of stress on appetite. In spite of the gene family name similarity, the product of this gene has no sequence similarity to urotensin II. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000223802	 This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) family and the TGF-beta superfamily. This group of proteins is characterized by a polybasic proteolytic processing site that is cleaved to produce a mature protein containing seven conserved cysteine residues. Members of this family are regulators of cell growth and differentiation in both embryonic and adult tissues. Studies in yeast suggest that the encoded protein is involved in aging. This protein is transcribed from a monocistronic mRNA as well as a bicistronic mRNA, which also encodes growth differentiation factor 1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000172977	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the MYST family of histone acetyl transferases (HATs) and was originally isolated as an HIV-1 TAT-interactive protein. HATs play important roles in regulating chromatin remodeling, transcription and other nuclear processes by acetylating histone and nonhistone proteins. This protein is a histone acetylase that has a role in DNA repair and apoptosis and is thought to play an important role in signal transduction. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000068781	 STON1-GTF2A1L mRNAs are infrequent but naturally occurring read-through products of the neighboring STON1 and GTF2A1L genes. These transcripts encode fusion proteins composed of the vast majority of each of the individual elements, stonin 1 and general transcription factor IIA, 1-like. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. The significance of these read-through variants and the function of the resulting protein products have not yet been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000241973	 This gene encodes a phosphatidylinositol (PI) 4-kinase which catalyzes the first committed step in the biosynthesis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. The mammalian PI 4-kinases have been classified into two types, II and III, based on their molecular mass, and modulation by detergent and adenosine. The protein encoded by this gene is a type III enzyme that is not inhibited by adenosine. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000141447	 This gene encodes a member of the oxysterol-binding protein (OSBP) family, a group of intracellular lipid receptors. Most members contain an N-terminal pleckstrin homology domain and a highly conserved C-terminal OSBP-like sterol-binding domain, although some members contain only the sterol-binding domain. Transcript variants derived from alternative promoter usage and/or alternative splicing exist; they encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000064419	 The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear import receptor for serine/arginine-rich (SR) proteins such as the splicing factors SFRS1 and SFRS2. The encoded protein has also been shown to be involved in HIV-1 infection, apparently through interaction with the HIV-1 capsid protein. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms as well as a noncoding transcript have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000183785	 This gene encodes a member of the alpha tubulin protein family. Alpha tubulins are one of two core protein families (alpha and beta tubulins) that heterodimerize and assemble to form microtubules. Mutations in this gene are associated with polymicrogyria and optic nerve hypoplasia. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000127415	 This gene encodes an enzyme that hydrolyzes the terminal alpha-L-iduronic acid residues of two glycosaminoglycans, dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate. This hydrolysis is required for the lysosomal degradation of these glycosaminoglycans. Mutations in this gene that result in enzymatic deficiency lead to the autosomal recessive disease mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115850	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family 1 of glycosyl hydrolases. The protein is integral to plasma membrane and has both phlorizin hydrolase activity and lactase activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108443	 This gene encodes a member of the ribosomal S6 kinase family of serine/threonine kinases. The encoded protein responds to mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) signaling to promote protein synthesis, cell growth, and cell proliferation. Activity of this gene has been associated with human cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed. The use of alternative translation start sites results in isoforms with longer or shorter N-termini which may differ in their subcellular localizations. There are two pseudogenes for this gene on chromosome 17. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000175600	 This gene encodes a protein that is similar to members of the CaiB/baiF CoA-transferase protein family. Mutations in this gene are associated with glutaric aciduria type III. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000081189	 This locus encodes a member of the MADS box transcription enhancer factor 2 (MEF2) family of proteins, which play a role in myogenesis. The encoded protein, MEF2 polypeptide C, has both trans-activating and DNA binding activities. This protein may play a role in maintaining the differentiated state of muscle cells. Mutations and deletions at this locus have been associated with severe mental retardation, stereotypic movements, epilepsy, and cerebral malformation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000187091	 This gene encodes a member of the phospholipase C family. Phospholipase C isozymes play critical roles in intracellular signal transduction by catalyzing the hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) into the second messengers diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol triphosphate (IP3). The encoded protein functions as a tumor suppressor in several types of cancer, and mutations in this gene are a cause of hereditary leukonychia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000081913	 This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine phosphatase family. The encoded protein promotes apoptosis by dephosphorylating and inactivating the serine/threonine kinase Akt, and functions as a tumor suppressor in multiple types of cancer. Increased expression of this gene may also play a role in obesity and type 2 diabetes by interfering with Akt-mediated insulin signaling. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000090060	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the poly(A) polymerase family. It is required for the addition of adenosine residues for the creation of the 3'-poly(A) tail of mRNAs. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000186439	 This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that contains a single transmembrane domain. As similar protein in rabbits plays a role in skeletal muscle excitation-contraction coupling as part of the calcium release complex in association with the ryanodine receptor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene may be markers for IgA nephritis. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000104331	 This gene encodes a member of the inositol monophosphatase family. The encoded protein is localized to the Golgi apparatus and catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphoadenosine phosphate (PAP) to adenosine monophosphate (AMP). Mutations in this gene are a cause of GRAPP type chondrodysplasia with joint dislocations, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 1. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000137806	 This gene encodes a complex I assembly factor protein. Complex I (NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase) catalyzes the transfer of electrons from NADH to ubiquinone (coenzyme Q) in the first step of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, resulting in the translocation of protons across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The encoded protein is required for assembly of complex I, and mutations in this gene are a cause of mitochondrial complex I deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 19. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000134049	 This gene encodes a small protein that is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and may play a role in the ER stress response by mediating cell differentiation and apoptosis. Transcription of this gene is regulated by tumor necrosis factor alpha and specificity protein 1 (Sp1). Mutations in this gene may play a role in microcephaly, epilepsy, and diabetes syndrome (MEDS), and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 12. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000136546	 This gene encodes one of the many voltage-gated sodium channel proteins. For proper functioning of neurons and muscles during action potentials, voltage-gated sodium channels direct sodium ion diffusion for membrane depolarization. This sodium channel protein has some atypical characteristics; the similarity between the human and mouse proteins is lower compared to other orthologous sodium channel pairs. Also, the S4 segments, which sense voltage changes, have fewer positive charged residues that in other sodium channels; domain 4 has fewer arginine and lysine residues compared to other sodium channel proteins. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants exist, but the full-length natures of all of them remain unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000090530	 This gene encodes a member of the prolyl 3-hydroxylase subfamily of 2-oxo-glutarate-dependent dioxygenases. These enzymes play a critical role in collagen chain assembly, stability and cross-linking by catalyzing post-translational 3-hydroxylation of proline residues. Mutations in this gene are associated with nonsyndromic severe myopia with cataract and vitreoretinal degeneration, and downregulation of this gene may play a role in breast cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000172348	 This gene encodes a member of the regulator of calcineurin (RCAN) protein family. These proteins play a role in many physiological processes by binding to the catalytic domain of calcineurin A, inhibiting calcineurin-mediated nuclear translocation of the transcription factor NFATC1. Expression of this gene in skin fibroblasts is upregulated by thyroid hormone, and the encoded protein may also play a role in endothelial cell function and angiogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000213809	 Natural killer (NK) cells are lymphocytes that can mediate lysis of certain tumor cells and virus-infected cells without previous activation. They can also regulate specific humoral and cell-mediated immunity. NK cells preferentially express several calcium-dependent (C-type) lectins, which have been implicated in the regulation of NK cell function. The NKG2 gene family is located within the NK complex, a region that contains several C-type lectin genes preferentially expressed in NK cells. This gene encodes a member of the NKG2 family. The encoded transmembrane protein is characterized by a type II membrane orientation (has an extracellular C terminus) and the presence of a C-type lectin domain. It binds to a diverse family of ligands that include MHC class I chain-related A and B proteins and UL-16 binding proteins, where ligand-receptor interactions can result in the activation of NK and T cells. The surface expression of these ligands is important for the recognition of stressed cells by the immune system, and thus this protein and its ligands are therapeutic targets for the treatment of immune diseases and cancers. Read-through transcription exists between this gene and the upstream KLRC4 (killer cell lectin-like receptor subfamily C, member 4) family member in the same cluster. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000120913	 This gene encodes a member of the ALP subfamily of PDZ-LIM domain proteins. The encoded protein suppresses anchorage-dependent growth and promotes cell migration and adhesion through interactions with the actin cytoskeleton via the PDZ domain. The encoded protein is also a putative tumor suppressor protein, and decreased expression of this gene is associated with several malignancies including breast cancer and adult T-cell leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000103591	 The protein encoded by this gene interacts with the gamma-adaptin and alpha-adaptin subunits of complexes involved in clathrin-coated vesicle trafficking. Mutations in this gene are associated with type I punctate palmoplantar keratoderma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000115947	 The origin recognition complex (ORC) is a highly conserved six subunit protein complex essential for the initiation of the DNA replication in eukaryotic cells. Studies in yeast demonstrated that ORC binds specifically to origins of replication and serves as a platform for the assembly of additional initiation factors such as Cdc6 and Mcm proteins. This gene encodes a subunit of the ORC complex. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants, some of which encode the same protein, have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000134086	 Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome (VHL) is a dominantly inherited familial cancer syndrome predisposing to a variety of malignant and benign tumors. A germline mutation of this gene is the basis of familial inheritance of VHL syndrome. The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the protein complex that includes elongin B, elongin C, and cullin-2, and possesses ubiquitin ligase E3 activity. This protein is involved in the ubiquitination and degradation of hypoxia-inducible-factor (HIF), which is a transcription factor that plays a central role in the regulation of gene expression by oxygen. RNA polymerase II subunit POLR2G/RPB7 is also reported to be a target of this protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000154767	 This gene encodes a component of the nucleotide excision repair (NER) pathway. There are multiple components involved in the NER pathway, including Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) A-G and V, Cockayne syndrome (CS) A and B, and trichothiodystrophy (TTD) group A, etc. This component, XPC, plays an important role in the early steps of global genome NER, especially in damage recognition, open complex formation, and repair protein complex formation. Mutations in this gene or some other NER components result in Xeroderma pigmentosum, a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by increased sensitivity to sunlight with the development of carcinomas at an early age. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000174684	 This gene encodes a member of the beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase family. This enzyme is a type II transmembrane protein. It is essential for the synthesis of poly-N-acetyllactosamine, a determinant for the blood group i antigen. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175305	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with and functions as a regulatory subunit of CDK2. This cyclin has been shown to specifically interact with CIP/KIP family of CDK inhibitors, and plays a role in cell cycle G1/S transition. The expression of this gene peaks at the G1-S phase and exhibits a pattern of tissue specificity distinct from that of cyclin E1. A significantly increased expression level of this gene was observed in tumor-derived cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114013	 This gene encodes a type I membrane protein that is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. This protein is expressed by antigen-presenting cells, and it is the ligand for two proteins at the cell surface of T cells, CD28 antigen and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4. Binding of this protein with CD28 antigen is a costimulatory signal for activation of the T-cell. Binding of this protein with cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 negatively regulates T-cell activation and diminishes the immune response. Alternative splicing results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000078399	 In vertebrates, the genes encoding the class of transcription factors called homeobox genes are found in clusters named A, B, C, and D on four separate chromosomes. Expression of these proteins is spatially and temporally regulated during embryonic development. This gene is part of the A cluster on chromosome 7 and encodes a DNA-binding transcription factor which may regulate gene expression, morphogenesis, and differentiation. This gene is highly similar to the abdominal-B (Abd-B) gene of Drosophila. A specific translocation event which causes a fusion between this gene and the NUP98 gene has been associated with myeloid leukemogenesis. Read-through transcription exists between this gene and the upstream homeobox A10 (HOXA10) gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000179344	 HLA-DQB1 belongs to the HLA class II beta chain paralogs. This class II molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha (DQA) and a beta chain (DQB), both anchored in the membrane. It plays a central role in the immune system by presenting peptides derived from extracellular proteins. Class II molecules are expressed in antigen presenting cells (APC: B lymphocytes, dendritic cells, macrophages). The beta chain is approximately 26-28 kDa and it contains six exons. Exon 1 encodes the leader peptide, exons 2 and 3 encode the two extracellular domains, exon 4 encodes the transmembrane domain and exon 5 encodes the cytoplasmic tail. Within the DQ molecule both the alpha chain and the beta chain contain the polymorphisms specifying the peptide binding specificities, resulting in up to four different molecules. Typing for these polymorphisms is routinely done for bone marrow transplantation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000196126	 HLA-DRB1 belongs to the HLA class II beta chain paralogs. The class II molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha (DRA) and a beta chain (DRB), both anchored in the membrane. It plays a central role in the immune system by presenting peptides derived from extracellular proteins. Class II molecules are expressed in antigen presenting cells (APC: B lymphocytes, dendritic cells, macrophages). The beta chain is approximately 26-28 kDa. It is encoded by 6 exons. Exon one encodes the leader peptide; exons 2 and 3 encode the two extracellular domains; exon 4 encodes the transmembrane domain; and exon 5 encodes the cytoplasmic tail. Within the DR molecule the beta chain contains all the polymorphisms specifying the peptide binding specificities. Hundreds of DRB1 alleles have been described and typing for these polymorphisms is routinely done for bone marrow and kidney transplantation. DRB1 is expressed at a level five times higher than its paralogs DRB3, DRB4 and DRB5. DRB1 is present in all individuals. Allelic variants of DRB1 are linked with either none or one of the genes DRB3, DRB4 and DRB5. There are 4 related pseudogenes: DRB2, DRB6, DRB7, DRB8 and DRB9. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105971	 The protein encoded by this gene is a major component of the inner surface of caveolae, small invaginations of the plasma membrane, and is involved in essential cellular functions, including signal transduction, lipid metabolism, cellular growth control and apoptosis. This protein may function as a tumor suppressor. This gene and related family member (CAV1) are located next to each other on chromosome 7, and express colocalizing proteins that form a stable hetero-oligomeric complex. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. Additional isoforms resulting from the use of alternate in-frame translation initiation codons have also been described, and shown to have preferential localization in the cell (PMID:11238462). [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000168970	 This gene transcribes naturally-occurring mRNAs that are read-through products of the neighboring jumonji domain containing 7 (JMJD7) and phospholipase A2, group IVB (PLA2G4B) genes. These read-through products contain in-frame segments from both genes but a function has yet to be determined for the predicted fusion proteins, which contain a partial JmjC domain and downstream C2 and phospholipase A2 domains. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000051180	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAD51 protein family. RAD51 family members are highly similar to bacterial RecA and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad51, and are known to be involved in the homologous recombination and repair of DNA. This protein can interact with the ssDNA-binding protein RPA and RAD52, and it is thought to play roles in homologous pairing and strand transfer of DNA. This protein is also found to interact with BRCA1 and BRCA2, which may be important for the cellular response to DNA damage. BRCA2 is shown to regulate both the intracellular localization and DNA-binding ability of this protein. Loss of these controls following BRCA2 inactivation may be a key event leading to genomic instability and tumorigenesis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000108691	 This gene is one of several cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The protein encoded by this gene is structurally related to the CXC subfamily of cytokines. Members of this subfamily are characterized by two cysteines separated by a single amino acid. This cytokine displays chemotactic activity for monocytes and basophils but not for neutrophils or eosinophils. It has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diseases characterized by monocytic infiltrates, like psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis and atherosclerosis. It binds to chemokine receptors CCR2 and CCR4. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000175216	 This gene encodes a cytoskeleton-associated protein which belongs to the TOG/XMAP215 family. The N-terminal half of this protein contains a microtubule-binding domain and the C-terminal half contains a KXGS motif for binding tubulin dimers. This protein has two distinct roles in spindle formation; it protects kinetochore microtubules from depolymerization and plays an essential role in centrosomal microtubule assembly. This protein may be necessary for the proper interaction of microtubules with the cell cortex for directional cell movement. It also plays a role in translation of the myelin basic protein (MBP) mRNA by interacting with heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A2, which associates with MBP. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000158773	 This gene encodes a member of the basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper family, and can function as a cellular transcription factor. The encoded protein can activate transcription through pyrimidine-rich initiator (Inr) elements and E-box motifs. This gene has been linked to familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCHL). Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been defined on chromosome 21. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000138385	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in diverse aspects of RNA metabolism, including binding and protecting poly(U) termini of nascent RNA polymerase III transcripts from exonuclease digestion, processing 5' and 3' ends of pre-tRNA precursors, acting as an RNA chaperone, and binding viral RNAs associated with hepatitis C virus. Autoantibodies reacting with this protein are found in the sera of patients with Sjogren syndrome and systemic lupus erythematosus. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000155657	 This gene encodes a large abundant protein of striated muscle. The product of this gene is divided into two regions, a N-terminal I-band and a C-terminal A-band. The I-band, which is the elastic part of the molecule, contains two regions of tandem immunoglobulin domains on either side of a PEVK region that is rich in proline, glutamate, valine and lysine. The A-band, which is thought to act as a protein-ruler, contains a mixture of immunoglobulin and fibronectin repeats, and possesses kinase activity. An N-terminal Z-disc region and a C-terminal M-line region bind to the Z-line and M-line of the sarcomere, respectively, so that a single titin molecule spans half the length of a sarcomere. Titin also contains binding sites for muscle associated proteins so it serves as an adhesion template for the assembly of contractile machinery in muscle cells. It has also been identified as a structural protein for chromosomes. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Considerable variability exists in the I-band, the M-line and the Z-disc regions of titin. Variability in the I-band region contributes to the differences in elasticity of different titin isoforms and, therefore, to the differences in elasticity of different muscle types. Mutations in this gene are associated with familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 9, and autoantibodies to titin are produced in patients with the autoimmune disease scleroderma. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000173391	 This gene encodes a low density lipoprotein receptor that belongs to the C-type lectin superfamily. This gene is regulated through the cyclic AMP signaling pathway. The encoded protein binds, internalizes and degrades oxidized low-density lipoprotein. This protein may be involved in the regulation of Fas-induced apoptosis. This protein may play a role as a scavenger receptor. Mutations of this gene have been associated with atherosclerosis, risk of myocardial infarction, and may modify the risk of Alzheimer's disease. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000110395	 This gene is a proto-oncogene that encodes a RING finger E3 ubiquitin ligase. The encoded protein is one of the enzymes required for targeting substrates for degradation by the proteasome. This protein mediates the transfer of ubiquitin from ubiquitin conjugating enzymes (E2) to specific substrates. This protein also contains an N-terminal phosphotyrosine binding domain that allows it to interact with numerous tyrosine-phosphorylated substrates and target them for proteasome degradation. As such it functions as a negative regulator of many signal transduction pathways. This gene has been found to be mutated or translocated in many cancers including acute myeloid leukaemia. Mutations in this gene are also the cause of Noonan syndrome-like disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000115474	 This gene encodes a member of the inwardly rectifying potassium channel family of proteins. Members of this family form ion channel pores that allow potassium ions to pass into a cell. The encoded protein belongs to a subfamily of low signal channel conductance proteins that have a low dependence on potassium concentration. Mutations in this gene are associated with snowflake vitreoretinal degeneration. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000186416	 This gene encodes a transcriptional repressor that interacts with specific negative regulatory elements to mediate transcriptional repression of certain nuclear factor kappa B responsive genes. The protein localizes predominantly to the nucleolus with a small fraction found in the nucleoplasm and cytoplasm. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000112992	 This gene encodes an integral protein of the inner mitochondrial membrane. The enzyme couples hydride transfer between NAD(H) and NADP(+) to proton translocation across the inner mitochondrial membrane. Under most physiological conditions, the enzyme uses energy from the mitochondrial proton gradient to produce high concentrations of NADPH. The resulting NADPH is used for biosynthesis and in free radical detoxification. Two alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000189433	 This gene encodes a transmembrane connexin protein that is a component of gap junctions. Mutations in this gene have been associated with erythrokeratodermia variabilis, progressive symmetric erythrokeratoderma and hearing impairment. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000187554	 This gene encodes a member of the toll-like receptor (TLR) family, which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immune responses. These receptors recognize distinct pathogen-associated molecular patterns that are expressed on infectious agents. The protein encoded by this gene recognizes bacterial flagellin, the principal component of bacterial flagella and a virulence factor. The activation of this receptor mobilizes the nuclear factor NF-kappaB, which in turn activates a host of inflammatory-related target genes. Mutations in this gene have been associated with both resistance and susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus, and susceptibility to Legionnaire disease.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000171812	 This gene encodes the alpha 2 chain of type VIII collagen. The protein is a major component of the basement membrane of the corneal endothelium and forms homo- or heterotrimers with alpha 1 (VIII) type collagens. Defects in this gene are associated with Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy and posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy type 2. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000177301	 Potassium channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes - shaker, shaw, shab, and shal - have been identified in Drosophila, and each has been shown to have human homolog(s). This gene encodes a member of the potassium channel, voltage-gated, shaker-related subfamily. This member contains six membrane-spanning domains with a shaker-type repeat in the fourth segment. It belongs to the delayed rectifier class, members of which allow nerve cells to efficiently repolarize following an action potential. The coding region of this gene is intronless, and the gene is clustered with genes KCNA3 and KCNA10 on chromosome 1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167325	 This gene encodes one of two non-identical subunits that constitute ribonucleoside-diphosphate reductase, an enzyme essential for the production of deoxyribonucleotides prior to DNA synthesis in S phase of dividing cells. It is one of several genes located in the imprinted gene domain of 11p15.5, an important tumor-suppressor gene region. Alterations in this region have been associated with the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, adrenocrotical carcinoma, and lung, ovarian, and breast cancer. This gene may play a role in malignancies and disease that involve this region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169218	 This gene is a member of the R-spondin family and encodes a secreted activator protein with two cystein-rich, furin-like domains and one thrombospondin type 1 domain. In mice, the protein induces the rapid onset of crypt cell proliferation and increases intestinal epithelial healing, providing a protective effect against chemotherapy-induced adverse effects. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171951	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the chromogranin/secretogranin family of neuroendocrine secretory proteins. Studies in rodents suggest that the full-length protein, secretogranin II, is involved in the packaging or sorting of peptide hormones and neuropeptides into secretory vesicles. The full-length protein is cleaved to produce the active peptide secretoneurin, which exerts chemotaxic effects on specific cell types, and EM66, whose function is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000122861	 This gene encodes a serine protease involved in degradation of the extracellular matrix and possibly tumor cell migration and proliferation. A specific polymorphism in this gene may be associated with late-onset Alzheimer's disease and also with decreased affinity for fibrin-binding. This protein converts plasminogen to plasmin by specific cleavage of an Arg-Val bond in plasminogen. Plasmin in turn cleaves this protein at a Lys-Ile bond to form a two-chain derivative in which a single disulfide bond connects the amino-terminal A-chain to the catalytically active, carboxy-terminal B-chain. This two-chain derivative is also called HMW-uPA (high molecular weight uPA). HMW-uPA can be further processed into LMW-uPA (low molecular weight uPA) by cleavage of chain A into a short chain A (A1) and an amino-terminal fragment. LMW-uPA is proteolytically active but does not bind to the uPA receptor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000010404	 Iduronate-2-sulfatase is required for the lysosomal degradation of heparan sulfate and dermatan sulfate. Mutations in this X-chromosome gene that result in enzymatic deficiency lead to the sex-linked Mucopolysaccharidosis Type II, also known as Hunter Syndrome. Iduronate-2-sulfatase has a strong sequence similarity with human arylsulfatases A, B, and C, and human glucosamine-6-sulfatase. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000145012	 This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of LIM domain proteins that are characterized by an N-terminal proline rich region and three C-terminal LIM domains. The encoded protein localizes to the cell periphery in focal adhesions and may be involved in cell-cell adhesion and cell motility. This protein also shuttles through the nucleus and may function as a transcriptional co-activator. This gene is located at the junction of certain disease related chromosomal translocations which result in the expression of chimeric proteins that may promote tumor growth. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000151702	 This gene encodes a transcription factor containing an ETS DNA-binding domain. The gene can undergo a t(11;22)(q24;q12) translocation with the Ewing sarcoma gene on chromosome 22, which results in a fusion gene that is present in the majority of Ewing sarcoma cases. An acute lymphoblastic leukemia-associated t(4;11)(q21;q23) translocation involving this gene has also been identified. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000173269	 This gene encodes a protein belonging to the member of elastin microfibril interface-located (EMILIN) protein family. This family member is an extracellular matrix glycoprotein that can interfere with tumor angiogenesis and growth. It serves as a transforming growth factor beta antagonist and can interfere with the VEGF-A/VEGFR2 pathway. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000105825	 This gene encodes a member of the Kunitz-type serine proteinase inhibitor family. The protein can inhibit a variety of serine proteases including factor VIIa/tissue factor, factor Xa, plasmin, trypsin, chymotryspin and plasma kallikrein. This gene has been identified as a tumor suppressor gene in several types of cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000129862	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of human VCX/Y genes. This gene family has multiple members on both X and Y chromosomes, and all are expressed exclusively in male germ cells. Members of the VCX/Y family share a high degree of sequence identity, with the exception that a 30-bp unit is tandemly repeated in X-linked members but occurs only once in Y-linked members. VCX/Y genes encode small and highly charged proteins of unknown function. This gene encodes a small, positively charged protein. The presence of a putative bipartite nuclear localization signal suggests that this gene encodes a nuclear protein. The genome has two identical copies of this gene within a palindromic region; this record represents the more centromeric copy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138760	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type III glycoprotein that is located primarily in limiting membranes of lysosomes and endosomes. Earlier studies in mice and rat suggested that this protein may participate in membrane transportation and the reorganization of endosomal/lysosomal compartment. The protein deficiency in mice was reported to impair cell membrane transport processes and cause pelvic junction obstruction, deafness, and peripheral neuropathy. Further studies in human showed that this protein is a ubiquitously expressed protein and that it is involved in the pathogenesis of HFMD (hand, foot, and mouth disease) caused by enterovirus-71 and possibly by coxsackievirus A16. Mutations in this gene caused an autosomal recessive progressive myoclonic epilepsy-4 (EPM4), also known as action myoclonus-renal failure syndrome (AMRF). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000197565	 This gene encodes one of the six subunits of type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes. Like the other members of the type IV collagen gene family, this gene is organized in a head-to-head conformation with another type IV collagen gene, alpha 5 type IV collagen, so that the gene pair shares a common promoter. Deletions in the alpha 5 gene that extend into the alpha 6 gene result in diffuse leiomyomatosis accompanying the X-linked Alport syndrome caused by the deletion in the alpha 5 gene. Two splice variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000018236	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. It is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored neuronal membrane protein that functions as a cell adhesion molecule. It may play a role in the formation of axon connections in the developing nervous system. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000072121	 This gene encodes a protein which contains a FYVE zinc finger binding domain. The presence of this domain is thought to target these proteins to membrane lipids through interaction with phospholipids in the membrane. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia-15. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000148356	 This gene encodes a ring finger protein involved in a variety of functions, including regulation of signaling pathways and cell adhesion, mediation of self-ubiquitylation, and involvement in cargo sorting during receptor endocytosis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000115935	 This gene encodes a protein that plays an important role in the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. The encoded protein binds to a region of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein that is frequently mutated in Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, an X-linked recessive disorder. Impairment of the interaction between these two proteins may contribute to the disease. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167522	 This locus encodes an ankryin repeat domain-containing protein. The encoded protein inhibits ligand-dependent activation of transcription. Mutations in this gene have been associated with KBG syndrome, which is characterized by macrodontia, distinctive craniofacial features, short stature, skeletal anomalies, global developmental delay, seizures and intellectual disability. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. Related pseudogenes exist on chromosomes 2 and X. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000143183	 This locus encodes a transmembrane protein. Mutations at this locus have been associated with craniofacial dysmorphism, skeletal anomalies, and mental retardation. Mutations at this locus have also been associated with open angle glaucoma blindness. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000250361	 Glycophorins A (GYPA) and B (GYPB) are major sialoglycoproteins of the human erythrocyte membrane which bear the antigenic determinants for the MN and Ss blood groups. GYPB gene consists of 5 exons and has 97% sequence homology with GYPA from the 5' UTR to the coding sequence encoding the first 45 amino acids. In addition to the M or N and S or s antigens, that commonly occur in all populations, about 40 related variant phenotypes have been identified. These variants include all the variants of the Miltenberger complex and several isoforms of Sta; also, Dantu, Sat, He, Mg, and deletion variants Ena, S-s-U- and Mk. Most of the variants are the result of gene recombinations between GYPA and GYPB. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135446	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This protein is highly similar to the gene products of S. cerevisiae cdc28 and S. pombe cdc2. It is a catalytic subunit of the protein kinase complex that is important for cell cycle G1 phase progression. The activity of this kinase is restricted to the G1-S phase, which is controlled by the regulatory subunits D-type cyclins and CDK inhibitor p16(INK4a). This kinase was shown to be responsible for the phosphorylation of retinoblastoma gene product (Rb). Mutations in this gene as well as in its related proteins including D-type cyclins, p16(INK4a) and Rb were all found to be associated with tumorigenesis of a variety of cancers. Multiple polyadenylation sites of this gene have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000003137	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The encoded protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum, and functions as a critical regulator of all-trans retinoic acid levels by the specific inactivation of all-trans retinoic acid to hydroxylated forms. Mutations in this gene are associated with radiohumeral fusions and other skeletal and craniofacial anomalies, and increased levels of the encoded protein are associated with atherosclerotic lesions. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013]. 
ENSG00000143365	 The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA-binding transcription factor and is a member of the NR1 subfamily of nuclear hormone receptors. The specific functions of this protein are not known; however, studies of a similar gene in mice have shown that this gene may be essential for lymphoid organogenesis and may play an important regulatory role in thymopoiesis. In addition, studies in mice suggest that the protein encoded by this gene may inhibit the expression of Fas ligand and IL2. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137872	 Semaphorins are a large family, including both secreted and membrane associated proteins, many of which have been implicated as inhibitors or chemorepellents in axon pathfinding, fasciculation and branching, and target selection. All semaphorins possess a semaphorin (Sema) domain and a PSI domain (found in plexins, semaphorins and integrins) in the N-terminal extracellular portion. Additional sequence motifs C-terminal to the semaphorin domain allow classification into distinct subfamilies. Results demonstrate that transmembrane semaphorins, like the secreted ones, can act as repulsive axon guidance cues. This gene encodes a class 6 vertebrate transmembrane semaphorin that demonstrates alternative splicing. Several transcript variants have been identified and expression of the distinct encoded isoforms is thought to be regulated in a tissue- and development-dependent manner. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000175354	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. Members of the PTP family share a highly conserved catalytic motif, which is essential for the catalytic activity. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. Epidermal growth factor receptor and the adaptor protein Shc were reported to be substrates of this PTP, which suggested the roles in growth factor mediated cell signaling. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found. Two highly related but distinctly processed pseudogenes that localize to chromosomes 1 and 13, respectively, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000165731	 This gene, a member of the cadherin superfamily, encodes one of the receptor tyrosine kinases, which are cell-surface molecules that transduce signals for cell growth and differentiation. This gene plays a crucial role in neural crest development, and it can undergo oncogenic activation in vivo and in vitro by cytogenetic rearrangement. Mutations in this gene are associated with the disorders multiple endocrine neoplasia, type IIA, multiple endocrine neoplasia, type IIB, Hirschsprung disease, and medullary thyroid carcinoma. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Additional transcript variants have been described but their biological validity has not been confirmed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000117650	 This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that is involved in mitotic regulation. This protein is localized to the centrosome, and undetectable during G1 phase, but accumulates progressively throughout the S phase, reaching maximal levels in late G2 phase. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms with distinct C-termini have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000196440	 The product of this gene belongs to the armadillo repeat-containing family of proteins, which interact with other proteins in a variety of cellular processes. The function of this family member is currently unknown. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000165288	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a bromodomain and several WD repeats. It is thought to have a chromatin-modifying function, and may thus play a role in transcription. Mutations in this gene cause mental retardation X-linked type 93, which is also referred to as mental retardation X-linked with macrocephaly. This gene is also associated with translocations in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000204540	 This gene is one of several genes thought to confer susceptibility to psoriasis and systemic sclerosis, located on chromosome 6 near the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I region. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000136603	 The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the SMAD pathway, which regulates cell growth and differentiation through transforming growth factor-beta (TGFB). In the absence of ligand, the encoded protein binds to the promoter region of TGFB-responsive genes and recruits a nuclear repressor complex. TGFB signaling causes SMAD3 to enter the nucleus and degrade this protein, allowing these genes to be activated. Four transcript variants encoding three different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000153317	 This gene encodes an ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) GTPase-activating protein. The GTPase-activating activity is stimulated by phosphatidylinositol 4,5-biphosphate (PIP2), and is greater towards ARF1 and ARF5, and lesser for ARF6. This gene maybe involved in regulation of membrane trafficking and cytoskeleton remodeling. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000256463	 This gene encodes a sal-like C2H2-type zinc-finger protein, and belongs to a family of evolutionarily conserved genes found in species as diverse as Drosophila, C. elegans, and vertebrates. Mutations in some of these genes are associated with congenital disorders in human, suggesting their importance in embryonic development. This protein binds to DNA methyltransferase 3 alpha (DNMT3A), and reduces DNMT3A-mediated CpG island methylation. It is suggested that silencing of this gene, resulting in acceleration of DNA methylation, may have a role in oncogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000055332	 The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinase that is activated by autophosphorylation after binding to dsRNA. The activated form of the encoded protein can phosphorylate translation initiation factor EIF2S1, which in turn inhibits protein synthesis. This protein is also activated by manganese ions and heparin. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000118194	 The protein encoded by this gene is the tropomyosin-binding subunit of the troponin complex, which is located on the thin filament of striated muscles and regulates muscle contraction in response to alterations in intracellular calcium ion concentration. Mutations in this gene have been associated with familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy as well as with dilated cardiomyopathy. Transcripts for this gene undergo alternative splicing that results in many tissue-specific isoforms, however, the full-length nature of some of these variants has not yet been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131323	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF receptor associated factor (TRAF) protein family. TRAF proteins associate with, and mediate the signal transduction from, members of the TNF receptor (TNFR) superfamily. This protein participates in the signal transduction of CD40, a TNFR family member important for the activation of the immune response. This protein is found to be a critical component of the lymphotoxin-beta receptor (LTbetaR) signaling complex, which induces NF-kappaB activation and cell death initiated by LTbeta ligation. Epstein-Barr virus encoded latent infection membrane protein-1 (LMP1) can interact with this and several other members of the TRAF family, which may be essential for the oncogenic effects of LMP1. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding three distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000170502	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Nudix hydrolase family. Nudix boxes are found in a family of diverse enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of nucleoside diphosphate derivatives. This enzyme is an ADP-ribose pyrophosphatase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of ADP-ribose to AMP and ribose-5-P. It requires divalent metal ions and an intact Nudix motif for enzymatic activity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000029153	 This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor belonging to the PAS (PER, ARNT, SIM) superfamily. The PAS proteins play important roles in adaptation to low atmospheric and cellular oxygen levels, exposure to certain environmental pollutants, and diurnal oscillations in light and temperature. This protein forms a transcriptionally active heterodimer with the circadian CLOCK protein, the structurally related MOP4, and hypoxia-inducible factors, such as HIF1alpha. Consistent with its role as a biologically relevant partner of circadian and hypoxia factors, this protein is coexpressed in regions of the brain such as the thalamus, hypothalamus, and amygdala. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000038532	 This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin domain containing family. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in introns of this gene have been associated with diabetes mellitus, multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000102908	 The product of this gene is a member of the nuclear factors of activated T cells family of transcription factors. Proteins belonging to this family play a central role in inducible gene transcription during the immune response. This protein regulates gene expression induced by osmotic stress in mammalian cells. Unlike monomeric members of this protein family, this protein exists as a homodimer and forms stable dimers with DNA elements. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137193	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinase family, and PIM subfamily. This gene is expressed primarily in B-lymphoid and myeloid cell lines, and is overexpressed in hematopoietic malignancies and in prostate cancer. It plays a role in signal transduction in blood cells, contributing to both cell proliferation and survival, and thus provides a selective advantage in tumorigenesis. Both the human and orthologous mouse genes have been reported to encode two isoforms (with preferential cellular localization) resulting from the use of alternative in-frame translation initiation codons, the upstream non-AUG (CUG) and downstream AUG codons (PMIDs:16186805, 1825810).[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000112531	 The protein encoded by this gene is an RNA-binding protein that regulates pre-mRNA splicing, export of mRNAs from the nucleus, protein translation, and mRNA stability. The encoded protein is involved in myelinization and oligodendrocyte differentiation and may play a role in schizophrenia. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000164136	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that regulates T and natural killer cell activation and proliferation. This cytokine and interleukine 2 share many biological activities. They are found to bind common hematopoietin receptor subunits, and may compete for the same receptor, and thus negatively regulate each other's activity. The number of CD8+ memory cells is shown to be controlled by a balance between this cytokine and IL2. This cytokine induces the activation of JAK kinases, as well as the phosphorylation and activation of transcription activators STAT3, STAT5, and STAT6. Studies of the mouse counterpart suggested that this cytokine may increase the expression of apoptosis inhibitor BCL2L1/BCL-x(L), possibly through the transcription activation activity of STAT6, and thus prevent apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000129219	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphatidylcholine to phosphatidic acid and choline. The activity of the encoded enzyme is enhanced by phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate and ADP-ribosylation factor-1. This protein localizes to the peripheral membrane and may be involved in cytoskeletal organization, cell cycle control, transcriptional regulation, and/or regulated secretion. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000198910	 The protein encoded by this gene is an axonal glycoprotein belonging to the immunoglobulin supergene family. The ectodomain, consisting of several immunoglobulin-like domains and fibronectin-like repeats (type III), is linked via a single transmembrane sequence to a conserved cytoplasmic domain. This cell adhesion molecule plays an important role in nervous system development, including neuronal migration and differentiation. Mutations in the gene cause three X-linked neurological syndromes known by the acronym CRASH (corpus callosum hypoplasia, retardation, aphasia, spastic paraplegia and hydrocephalus). Alternative splicing of a neuron-specific exon is thought to be functionally relevant. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115504	 This gene encodes an Eps15 homology domain binding protein. The encoded protein may play a role in endocytic trafficking. A single nucleotide polymorphism in this gene is associated with an aggressive form of prostate cancer. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000188162	 The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the acellular membranes of the inner ear. Disruption of the orthologous mouse gene shows that it plays a role in auditory and vestibular functions. It is involved in fibrillar network organization, the anchoring of otoconial membranes and cupulae to the neuroepithelia, and likely in sound stimulation resistance. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness, type 18B. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000173926	 This gene encodes a member of the membrane-associated RING-CH (MARCH) family. The encoded protein is an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase that may be involved in regulation of the endosomal transport pathway. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000174130	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans and share structural and functional similarities. They recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that are expressed on infectious agents, and mediate the production of cytokines necessary for the development of effective immunity. The various TLRs exhibit different patterns of expression. This receptor functionally interacts with toll-like receptor 2 to mediate cellular response to bacterial lipoproteins. A Ser249Pro polymorphism in the extracellular domain of the encoded protein may be associated with an increased of asthma is some populations.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000144381	 This gene encodes a member of the chaperonin family. The encoded mitochondrial protein may function as a signaling molecule in the innate immune system. This protein is essential for the folding and assembly of newly imported proteins in the mitochondria. This gene is adjacent to a related family member and the region between the 2 genes functions as a bidirectional promoter. Several pseudogenes have been associated with this gene. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. Mutations associated with this gene cause autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia 13. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000174938	 This gene encodes a seizure-related protein that is localized on the cell surface. The gene is located in a region of chromosome 16p11.2 that is thought to contain candidate genes for autism spectrum disorders (ASD), though there is no evidence directly implicating this gene in ASD. Increased expression of this gene has been found in lung cancers, and the protein is therefore considered to be a novel prognostic marker for lung cancer. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000155886	 This gene encodes a member of the calcium/cation antiporter superfamily of transport proteins. The encoded protein belongs to the SLC24 branch of exchangers, which can mediate the extrusion of one Ca2+ ion and one K+ ion in exchange for four Na+ ions. This family member is a retinal cone/brain exchanger that can mediate a light-induced decrease in free Ca2+ concentration. This protein may also play a neuroprotective role during ischemic brain injury. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000019582	 The protein encoded by this gene associates with class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and is an important chaperone that regulates antigen presentation for immune response. It also serves as cell surface receptor for the cytokine macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) which, when bound to the encoded protein, initiates survival pathways and cell proliferation. This protein also interacts with amyloid precursor protein (APP) and suppresses the production of amyloid beta (Abeta). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000163482	 This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine kinase family of enzymes. This family member is similar to a Drosophila protein that plays a key role in the Hedgehog signaling pathway. This human protein is a positive regulator of the GLI zinc-finger transcription factors. Knockout studies of the homologous mouse gene suggest that defects in this human gene may lead to congenital hydrocephalus, possibly due to a functional defect in motile cilia. Because Hedgehog signaling is frequently activated in certain kinds of gastrointestinal cancers, it has been suggested that this gene is a target for the treatment of these cancers. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000103995	 This gene encodes a protein that is thought to be involved with centrosome function. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary microcephaly (MCPH4). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000204525	 HLA-C belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues. This class I molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain and a light chain (beta-2 microglobulin). The heavy chain is anchored in the membrane. Class I molecules play a central role in the immune system by presenting peptides derived from endoplasmic reticulum lumen. They are expressed in nearly all cells. The heavy chain is approximately 45 kDa and its gene contains 8 exons. Exon one encodes the leader peptide, exons 2 and 3 encode the alpha1 and alpha2 domain, which both bind the peptide, exon 4 encodes the alpha3 domain, exon 5 encodes the transmembrane region, and exons 6 and 7 encode the cytoplasmic tail. Polymorphisms within exon 2 and exon 3 are responsible for the peptide binding specificity of each class one molecule. Typing for these polymorphisms is routinely done for bone marrow and kidney transplantation. Over one hundred HLA-C alleles have been described [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000172322	 This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signaling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. The protein encoded by this gene is a negative regulator of granulocyte and monocyte function. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. This gene is closely linked to other CTL/CTLD superfamily members in the natural killer gene complex region on chromosome 12p13. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000164692	 This gene encodes the pro-alpha2 chain of type I collagen whose triple helix comprises two alpha1 chains and one alpha2 chain. Type I is a fibril-forming collagen found in most connective tissues and is abundant in bone, cornea, dermis and tendon. Mutations in this gene are associated with osteogenesis imperfecta types I-IV, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIIB, recessive Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Classical type, idiopathic osteoporosis, and atypical Marfan syndrome. Symptoms associated with mutations in this gene, however, tend to be less severe than mutations in the gene for the alpha1 chain of type I collagen (COL1A1) reflecting the different role of alpha2 chains in matrix integrity. Three transcripts, resulting from the use of alternate polyadenylation signals, have been identified for this gene. [provided by R. Dalgleish, Feb 2008]. 
ENSG00000091482	 This gene encodes a small protein that has no known functional domains. Mutations in this gene are a cause of X-linked deafness-4, and the encoded protein may play a role in the maintenance of inner ear cells subjected to mechanical stress. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000100014	 This gene encodes a coiled-coil domain containing protein. The encoded protein may play a critical role in actin-cytoskeletal reorganization during facial morphogenesis. Mutations in this gene are a cause of oblique facial clefting-1. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000160796	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a beige and Chediak-Higashi (BEACH) domain and multiple WD40 domains, and may play a role in megakaryocyte alpha-granule biogenesis. Mutations in this gene are a cause of gray platelet syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000100478	 This gene encodes a member of the adaptor complexes small subunit protein family. These proteins are components of the heterotetrameric adaptor protein complexes, which play important roles in the secretory and endocytic pathways by mediating vesicle formation and sorting of integral membrane proteins. The encoded protein is the small subunit of adaptor protein complex-4, which is associated with both clathrin- and nonclathrin-coated vesicles. Mutations in this gene are associated with spastic quadriplegic cerebral palsy-6. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000196091	 This gene encodes a member of the myosin-binding protein C family. Myosin-binding protein C family members are myosin-associated proteins found in the cross-bridge-bearing zone (C region) of A bands in striated muscle. The encoded protein is the slow skeletal muscle isoform of myosin-binding protein C and plays an important role in muscle contraction by recruiting muscle-type creatine kinase to myosin filaments. Mutations in this gene are associated with distal arthrogryposis type I. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000204020	 The gene encodes a lipase that is highly expressed in granular keratinocytes in the epidermis, and plays a role in the differentiation of keratinocytes. Mutations in this gene are associated with lamellar ichthyosis type 4. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000163170	 This gene encodes a protein that plays an essential role in the production of iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters for the normal maturation of lipoate-containing 2-oxoacid dehydrogenases, and for the assembly of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes. Mutation in this gene has been associated with multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome-2. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms with distinct subcellular localization have been reported for this gene (PMID:21944046). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000132142	 Acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) is a complex multifunctional enzyme system. ACC is a biotin-containing enzyme which catalyzes the carboxylation of acetyl-CoA to malonyl-CoA, the rate-limiting step in fatty acid synthesis. There are two ACC forms, alpha and beta, encoded by two different genes. ACC-alpha is highly enriched in lipogenic tissues. The enzyme is under long term control at the transcriptional and translational levels and under short term regulation by the phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of targeted serine residues and by allosteric transformation by citrate or palmitoyl-CoA. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants divergent in the 5' sequence and encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183513	 This gene encodes an ortholog of yeast Pet191, which in yeast is a subunit of a large oligomeric complex associated with the mitochondrial inner membrane, and required for the assembly of the cytochrome c oxidase complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex IV deficiency, a disorder of the mitochondrial respiratory chain with heterogeneous clinical manifestations, ranging from isolated myopathy to a severe disease affecting several tissues and organs. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000167513	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the formation of the pre-replication complex that is necessary for DNA replication. The encoded protein can bind geminin, which prevents replication and may function to prevent this protein from initiating replication at inappropriate origins. Phosphorylation of this protein by cyclin A-dependent kinases results in degradation of the protein. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000241978	 The protein encoded by this gene binds to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A and is found associated with the actin cytoskeleton. The encoded protein mediates signals carried by cAMP and may be involved in creating polarity in certain signaling processes. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000154803	 This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. Mutations in this gene are associated with Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome, which is characterized by fibrofolliculomas, renal tumors, lung cysts, and pneumothorax. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101115	 The protein encoded by this gene may be a zinc finger transcription factor. Defects in this gene are a cause of Duane-radial ray syndrome (DRRS). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168394	 The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the pumping of degraded cytosolic peptides across the endoplasmic reticulum into the membrane-bound compartment where class I molecules assemble. Mutations in this gene may be associated with ankylosing spondylitis, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, and celiac disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162885	 This gene encodes a member of the glycosyltransferase 31 family. The encoded protein synthesizes GalNAc:beta-1,3GlcNAc, a novel carbohydrate structure, on N- and O-glycans. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000139687	 The protein encoded by this gene is a negative regulator of the cell cycle and was the first tumor suppressor gene found. The encoded protein also stabilizes constitutive heterochromatin to maintain the overall chromatin structure. The active, hypophosphorylated form of the protein binds transcription factor E2F1. Defects in this gene are a cause of childhood cancer retinoblastoma (RB), bladder cancer, and osteogenic sarcoma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163531	 This gene encodes an L1 family immunoglobulin cell adhesion molecule with multiple IGcam and fibronectin domains. The protein functions in neurite outgrowth, neurite fasciculation, and organization of the axon initial segment (AIS) and nodes of Ranvier on axons during early development. Both the AIS and nodes of Ranvier contain high densities of voltage-gated Na+ (Nav) channels which are clustered by interactions with cytoskeletal and scaffolding proteins including this protein, gliomedin, ankyrin 3 (ankyrin-G), and betaIV spectrin. This protein links the AIS extracellular matrix to the intracellular cytoskeleton. This gene undergoes extensive alternative splicing, and the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000135829	 This gene encodes a member of the DEAH-containing family of RNA helicases. The encoded protein is an enzyme that catalyzes the ATP-dependent unwinding of double-stranded RNA and DNA-RNA complexes. This protein localizes to both the nucleus and the cytoplasm and functions as a transcriptional regulator. This protein may also be involved in the expression and nuclear export of retroviral RNAs. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 11 and 13.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000141738	 The product of this gene belongs to a small family of adapter proteins that are known to interact with a number of receptor tyrosine kinases and signaling molecules. This gene encodes a growth factor receptor-binding protein that interacts with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and ephrin receptors. The protein plays a role in the integrin signaling pathway and cell migration by binding with focal adhesion kinase (FAK). Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000172349	 The protein encoded by this gene is a pleiotropic cytokine that functions as a chemoattractant, a modulator of T cell activation, and an inhibitor of HIV replication. The signaling process of this cytokine is mediated by CD4. The product of this gene undergoes proteolytic processing, which is found to yield two functional proteins. The cytokine function is exclusively attributed to the secreted C-terminal peptide, while the N-terminal product may play a role in cell cycle control. Caspase 3 is reported to be involved in the proteolytic processing of this protein. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000057252	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acyltransferase family. It is located in the endoplasmic reticulum, and catalyzes the formation of fatty acid-cholesterol esters. This gene has been implicated in the formation of beta-amyloid and atherosclerotic plaques by controlling the equilibrium between free cholesterol and cytoplasmic cholesteryl esters. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000198589	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the WDL-BEACH-WD (WBW) gene family. Its expression is induced in B cells and macrophages by bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS). The encoded protein associates with protein kinase A and may be involved in leading intracellular vesicles to activated receptor complexes, which aids in the secretion and/or membrane deposition of immune effector molecules. Defects in this gene are associated with the disorder common variable immunodeficiency-8 with autoimmunity. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000130489	 Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) catalyzes the transfer of electrons from cytochrome c to molecular oxygen, which helps to maintain the proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane that is necessary for aerobic ATP production. Human COX is a multimeric protein complex that requires several assembly factors; this gene encodes one of the COX asembly factors. The encoded protein is a metallochaperone that is involved in the biogenesis of cytochrome c oxidase subunit II. Mutations in this gene are associated with fatal infantile encephalocardiomyopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000164405	 This gene encodes a ubiquinone-binding protein of low molecular mass. This protein is a small core-associated protein and a subunit of ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex III, which is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000129170	 This gene encodes a member of the CSRP family of LIM domain proteins, which may be involved in regulatory processes important for development and cellular differentiation. The LIM/double zinc-finger motif found in this protein is found in a group of proteins with critical functions in gene regulation, cell growth, and somatic differentiation. Mutations in this gene are thought to cause heritable forms of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) in humans. Alternatively spliced transcript variants with different 5' UTR, but encoding the same protein, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131446	 There are believed to be over 100 different glycosyltransferases involved in the synthesis of protein-bound and lipid-bound oligosaccharides. UDP-N-acetylglucosamine:alpha-3-D-mannoside beta-1,2-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase I is a medial-Golgi enzyme essential for the synthesis of hybrid and complex N-glycans. The protein, encoded by a single exon, shows typical features of a type II transmembrane protein. The protein is believed to be essential for normal embryogenesis. Several variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136908	 Dolichol-phosphate mannose (Dol-P-Man) serves as a donor of mannosyl residues on the lumenal side of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Lack of Dol-P-Man results in defective surface expression of GPI-anchored proteins. Dol-P-Man is synthesized from GDP-mannose and dolichol-phosphate on the cytosolic side of the ER by the enzyme dolichyl-phosphate mannosyltransferase. The protein encoded by this gene is a hydrophobic protein that contains 2 predicted transmembrane domains and a putative ER localization signal near the C terminus. This protein associates with DPM1 in vivo and is required for the ER localization and stable expression of DPM1 and also enhances the binding of dolichol-phosphate to DPM1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162747	 The protein encoded by this gene is a low affinity receptor for the Fc region of gamma immunoglobulins (IgG). The encoded protein acts as a monomer and can bind either monomeric or aggregated IgG. This gene may function to capture immune complexes in the peripheral circulation. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. A highly-similar gene encoding a related protein is also found on chromosome 1. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000008441	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor that binds the palindromic sequence 5'-TTGGCNNNNNGCCAA-3 in viral and cellular promoters. The encoded protein can also stimulate adenovirus replication in vitro. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000012817	 This gene encodes a protein containing zinc finger domains. A short peptide derived from this protein is a minor histocompatibility antigen which can lead to graft rejection of male donor cells in a female recipient. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000141448	 This gene is a member of a small family of zinc finger transcription factors that play an important role in the regulation of cellular differentiation and organogenesis during vertebrate development. This gene is expressed during early embryogenesis and localizes to endo- and mesodermally derived cells during later embryogenesis and thereby plays an important role in gut, lung, and heart development. Mutations in this gene are associated with several congenital defects. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000113073	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein involved in anion exchange. Expression of this gene is mostly limited to the kidney. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000050438	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein that functions to transport sodium and bicarbonate ions across the cell membrane. The encoded protein is important for pH regulation in neurons. The activity of this protein can be inhibited by 4,4'-Di-isothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000108883	 This gene encodes a GTPase which is a component of the spliceosome complex which processes precursor mRNAs to produce mature mRNAs. Mutations in this gene are associated with mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000033867	 This locus encodes a sodium bicarbonate cotransporter. The encoded transmembrane protein appears to transport sodium and bicarbonate ions in a 1:1 ratio, and is thus considered an electroneutral cotransporter. The encoded protein likely plays a critical role in regulation of intracellular pH involved in visual and auditory sensory transmission. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000184752	 This gene encodes a protein which is part of mitochondrial complex 1, part of the oxidative phosphorylation system in mitochondria. Complex 1 transfers electrons to ubiquinone from NADH which establishes a proton gradient for the generation of ATP. Mutations in this gene are associated with Leigh syndrome due to mitochondrial complex 1 deficiency. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 5 and 13. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000178814	 The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homodimer, using ATP hydrolysis to catalyze the conversion of 5-oxo-L-proline to L-glutamate. Defects in this gene are a cause of 5-oxoprolinase deficiency (OPLAHD). [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000126903	 This gene maps to a GC-rich region of the X chromosome and was identified by its proximity to a CpG island. It is thought to be a housekeeping gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000138376	 This gene encodes a protein which interacts with the N-terminal region of BRCA1. In addition to its ability to bind BRCA1 in vivo and in vitro, it shares homology with the 2 most conserved regions of BRCA1: the N-terminal RING motif and the C-terminal BRCT domain. The RING motif is a cysteine-rich sequence found in a variety of proteins that regulate cell growth, including the products of tumor suppressor genes and dominant protooncogenes. This protein also contains 3 tandem ankyrin repeats. The BARD1/BRCA1 interaction is disrupted by tumorigenic amino acid substitutions in BRCA1, implying that the formation of a stable complex between these proteins may be an essential aspect of BRCA1 tumor suppression. This protein may be the target of oncogenic mutations in breast or ovarian cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000176988	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from L29074.1. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000160789	 The nuclear lamina consists of a two-dimensional matrix of proteins located next to the inner nuclear membrane. The lamin family of proteins make up the matrix and are highly conserved in evolution. During mitosis, the lamina matrix is reversibly disassembled as the lamin proteins are phosphorylated. Lamin proteins are thought to be involved in nuclear stability, chromatin structure and gene expression. Vertebrate lamins consist of two types, A and B. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Mutations in this gene lead to several diseases: Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy, familial partial lipodystrophy, limb girdle muscular dystrophy, dilated cardiomyopathy, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, and Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000170624	 The protein encoded by this gene is one of the four known components of the sarcoglycan complex, which is a subcomplex of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC). DGC forms a link between the F-actin cytoskeleton and the extracellular matrix. This protein is expressed most abundantly in skeletal and cardiac muscle. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive limb-girdle muscular dystrophy and dilated cardiomyopathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000042832	 Thyroglobulin (Tg) is a glycoprotein homodimer produced predominantly by the thryroid gland. It acts as a substrate for the synthesis of thyroxine and triiodothyronine as well as the storage of the inactive forms of thyroid hormone and iodine. Thyroglobulin is secreted from the endoplasmic reticulum to its site of iodination, and subsequent thyroxine biosynthesis, in the follicular lumen. Mutations in this gene cause thyroid dyshormonogenesis, manifested as goiter, and are associated with moderate to severe congenital hypothyroidism. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with susceptibility to autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITD) such as Graves disease and Hashimoto thryoiditis. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000116678	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the gp130 family of cytokine receptors that are known to stimulate gene transcription via activation of cytosolic STAT proteins. This protein is a receptor for leptin (an adipocyte-specific hormone that regulates body weight), and is involved in the regulation of fat metabolism, as well as in a novel hematopoietic pathway that is required for normal lymphopoiesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with obesity and pituitary dysfunction. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. It is noteworthy that this gene and LEPROT gene (GeneID:54741) share the same promoter and the first 2 exons, however, encode distinct proteins (PMID:9207021).[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000096996	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane protein that belongs to the hemopoietin receptor superfamily. This protein binds to interleukine 12 (IL12) with a low affinity, and is thought to be a part of IL12 receptor complex. This protein forms a disulfide-linked oligomer, which is required for its IL12 binding activity. The coexpression of this and IL12RB2 proteins was shown to lead to the formation of high-affinity IL12 binding sites and reconstitution of IL12 dependent signaling. The lack of expression of this gene was found to result in the immunodeficiency of patients with severe mycobacterial and Salmonella infections. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000012061	 The product of this gene functions in the nucleotide excision repair pathway, and is required for the repair of DNA lesions such as those induced by UV light or formed by electrophilic compounds including cisplatin. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with the XPF endonuclease (also known as ERCC4), and the heterodimeric endonuclease catalyzes the 5' incision in the process of excising the DNA lesion. The heterodimeric endonuclease is also involved in recombinational DNA repair and in the repair of inter-strand crosslinks. Mutations in this gene result in cerebrooculofacioskeletal syndrome, and polymorphisms that alter expression of this gene may play a role in carcinogenesis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The last exon of this gene overlaps with the CD3e molecule, epsilon associated protein gene on the opposite strand. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000133138	 This gene encodes a protein with a TBC (Tre-2/Bub2/CDC16) domain. Some mammalian proteins with this domain have been shown to function as Rab-GAPs by binding to specific Rab proteins and affecting their GTPase activity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000006530	 The protein encoded by this gene is a mitochondrial membrane protein involved in lipid and glycerolipid metabolism. The encoded protein is a lipid kinase that catalyzes the formation of phosphatidic and lysophosphatidic acids. Defects in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome 10. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000160221	 This gene encodes a potential mitochondrial protein that is a member of the DJ-1/PfpI gene family. This protein is overexpressed in fetal Down syndrome brain. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000076242	 This gene was identified as a locus frequently mutated in hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC). It is a human homolog of the E. coli DNA mismatch repair gene mutL, consistent with the characteristic alterations in microsatellite sequences (RER+phenotype) found in HNPCC. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional transcript variants have been described, but their full-length natures have not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000163687	 This gene encodes a member of the deoxyribonuclease I family. The encoded protein hydrolyzes DNA, is not inhibited by actin, and mediates the breakdown of DNA during apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are a cause of systemic lupus erythematosus-16. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000106415	 This gene encodes a protein of unknown function. Expression of this gene is induced by glucocorticoids and may be an early marker for glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene are associated with a decreased response to inhaled glucocorticoids in asthmatic patients. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000145794	 This gene encodes a member of the multiple epidermal growth factor-like domains protein family. The encoded protein plays a role in cell adhesion, motility and proliferation, and is a critical mediator of apoptotic cell phagocytosis as well as amyloid-beta peptide uptake in the brain. Expression of this gene may be associated with schizophrenia, and mutations in this gene are a cause of early-onset myopathy, areflexia, respiratory distress, and dysphagia (EMARDD) as well as congenital myopathy with minicores. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000118507	 This gene encodes a member of the A-kinase anchoring protein (AKAP) family, a group of functionally related proteins that bind to a regulatory subunit (RII) of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) and target the enzyme to specific subcellular compartments. AKAPs have a common RII-binding domain, but contain different targeting motifs responsible for directing PKA to distinct intracellular locations. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000108018	 This gene encodes one family member of vacuolar protein sorting 10 (VPS10) domain-containing receptor proteins. The VPS10 domain name comes from the yeast carboxypeptidase Y sorting receptor Vps10 protein. Members of this gene family are large with many exons but the CDS lengths are usually less than 3700 nt. Very large introns typically separate the exons encoding the VPS10 domain; the remaining exons are separated by much smaller-sized introns. These genes are strongly expressed in the central nervous system. Two of the five family members (sortilin and sortilin-related receptor) are synthesized as preproproteins; it is not yet known if this encoded protein is also a preproprotein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000025770	 This gene encodes one of the non-SMC subunits of the condensin II complex. This complex plays an essential role in mitotic chromosome assembly. Alternate splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000137752	 This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce 2 subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This gene was identified by its ability to proteolytically cleave and activate the inactive precursor of interleukin-1, a cytokine involved in the processes such as inflammation, septic shock, and wound healing. This gene has been shown to induce cell apoptosis and may function in various developmental stages. Studies of a similar gene in mouse suggest a role in the pathogenesis of Huntington disease. Alternative splicing results in transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000144935	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein that can form a non-selective channel permeable to calcium and other cations. The encoded protein appears to be induced to form channels by a receptor tyrosine kinase-activated phosphatidylinositol second messenger system and also by depletion of intracellular calcium stores. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000226372	 This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by Gly-His and Trp-Asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate the formation of heterotrimeric or multi-protein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. This gene appears to represent an intronless retrocopy of a related multi-exon gene located on chromosome 1. However, the CDS of this intronless gene remains intact, it is conserved in other primate species, it is known to be transcribed, and it is therefore thought to encode a functional protein. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000242732	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from BX119917.9. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000118785	 The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the attachment of osteoclasts to the mineralized bone matrix. The encoded protein is secreted and binds hydroxyapatite with high affinity. The osteoclast vitronectin receptor is found in the cell membrane and may be involved in the binding to this protein. This protein is also a cytokine that upregulates expression of interferon-gamma and interleukin-12. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000081059	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional activator that plays an important role in lymphocyte differentiation. This gene is expressed predominantly in T-cells. The encoded protein can bind an enhancer element and activate the CD3E gene, and it also may repress the CTNNB1 and TCF7L2 genes through a feedback mechanism. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000185448	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL591625.8. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000028277	 The protein encoded by this gene is a homeobox-containing transcription factor of the POU domain family. The encoded protein binds the octamer sequence 5'-ATTTGCAT-3', a common transcription factor binding site in immunoglobulin gene promoters. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000011566	 This gene encodes a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase family. The encoded protein activates key effectors in cell signalling, among them c-Jun. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000155087	 The outer dense fibers are cytoskeletal structures that surround the axoneme in the middle piece and principal piece of the sperm tail. The fibers function in maintaining the elastic structure and recoil of the sperm tail as well as in protecting the tail from shear forces during epididymal transport and ejaculation. Defects in the outer dense fibers lead to abnormal sperm morphology and infertility. The human outer dense fibers contains at least 10 major proteins and this gene encodes the main protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000005801	 This gene encodes a protein belonging to the Krueppel C2H2-type zinc-finger protein family. These family members are transcription factors that are implicated in a variety of cellular processes. This gene is located near the centromeric border of chromosome 11p15.5, next to an imprinted domain that is associated with maternal-specific loss of heterozygosity in Wilms' tumors. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000041982	 This gene encodes an extracellular matrix protein with a spatially and temporally restricted tissue distribution. This protein is homohexameric with disulfide-linked subunits, and contains multiple EGF-like and fibronectin type-III domains. It is implicated in guidance of migrating neurons as well as axons during development, synaptic plasticity, and neuronal regeneration. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000171611	 The protein encoded by this gene is a single-pass type I membrane protein that is found in immmature but not mature T-cells. Along with TCRB and CD3 complex, the encoded protein forms the pre-T-cell receptor complex, which regulates early T-cell development. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000010438	 This gene encodes a trypsinogen, which is a member of the trypsin family of serine proteases. This enzyme is expressed in the brain and pancreas and is resistant to common trypsin inhibitors. It is active on peptide linkages involving the carboxyl group of lysine or arginine. This gene is localized to the locus of T cell receptor beta variable orphans on chromosome 9. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000120071	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein that is a subunit of two protein complexes involved with histone acetylation, the MLL1 complex and the NSL1 complex. The corresponding protein in Drosophila interacts with K(lysine) acetyltransferase 8, which is also a subunit of both the MLL1 and NSL1 complexes. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000073417	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family, and PDE8 subfamily. This PDE hydrolyzes the second messenger, cAMP, which is a regulator and mediator of a number of cellular responses to extracellular signals. Thus, by regulating the cellular concentration of cAMP, this protein plays a key role in many important physiological processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000147138	 This gene encodes a protein belonging to the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. These proteins are characterized by the presence of seven alpha-helical transmembrane domains, and they activate or interact with various endogenous or exogenous ligands, including neurotransmitters, hormones, and odorant and taste substances. This family member is classified as an orphan receptor because the cognate ligand has not been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000183304	 This gene is a member of a gene family which arose through duplication on the X chromosome. The encoded protein may be a nuclear protein that is localized to the nucleolus, and has some similarity to a synaptonemal complex protein. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000102043	 This gene encodes a member of the myotubularin-related family and is part of the MTMR6 subgroup. Family members are dual-specificity phosphatases and the encoded protein contains a phosphoinositide-binding domain (PID) and a SET-interacting domain (SID). Defects in other family members have been found in myotubular myopathic diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000132139	 The protein encoded by this gene appears to crosslink microtubules and microfilaments and may be part of the cytoskeleton. This gene is mainly expressed in skeletal muscle. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000177791	 The protein encoded by this gene is primarily expressed in the skeletal muscle, and belongs to the myozenin family. Members of this family function as calcineurin-interacting proteins that help tether calcineurin to the sarcomere of cardiac and skeletal muscle. They play an important role in modulation of calcineurin signaling. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000164597	 The protein encoded by this gene is one of eight proteins (Cog1-8) which form a Golgi-localized complex (COG) required for normal Golgi morphology and function. The encoded protein is organized with conserved oligomeric Golgi complex components 6, 7 and 8 into a sub-complex referred to as lobe B. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Mutations in this gene result in congenital disorder of glycosylation type 2I.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000028528	 This gene encodes a member of the sorting nexin family. Members of this family contain a phox (PX) domain, which is a phosphoinositide binding domain, and are involved in intracellular trafficking. This endosomal protein regulates the cell-surface expression of epidermal growth factor receptor. This protein also has a role in sorting protease-activated receptor-1 from early endosomes to lysosomes. This protein may form oligomeric complexes with family members. This gene results in three transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000025708	 This gene encodes an angiogenic factor which promotes angiogenesis in vivo and stimulates the in vitro growth of a variety of endothelial cells. It has a highly restricted target cell specificity acting only on endothelial cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000166333	 Transduction of extracellular matrix signals through integrins influences intracellular and extracellular functions, and appears to require interaction of integrin cytoplasmic domains with cellular proteins. Integrin-linked kinase (ILK), interacts with the cytoplasmic domain of beta-1 integrin. This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase with 4 ankyrin-like repeats, which associates with the cytoplasmic domain of beta integrins and acts as a proximal receptor kinase regulating integrin-mediated signal transduction. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159352	 The 26S proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highly ordered structure composed of 2 complexes, a 20S core and a 19S regulator. The 20S core is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. The 19S regulator is composed of a base, which contains 6 ATPase subunits and 2 non-ATPase subunits, and a lid, which contains up to 10 non-ATPase subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomal pathway. An essential function of a modified proteasome, the immunoproteasome, is the processing of class I MHC peptides. This gene encodes one of the non-ATPase subunits of the 19S regulator lid. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 10 and 21. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000151849	 This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the centromere protein family. During cell division, this protein plays a structural role in the maintenance of centrosome integrity and normal spindle morphology, and it is involved in microtubule disassembly at the centrosome. This protein can function as a transcriptional coactivator in the Stat5 signaling pathway, and also as a coactivator of NF-kappaB-mediated transcription, likely via its interaction with the coactivator p300/CREB-binding protein. Mutations in this gene are associated with primary autosomal recessive microcephaly, a disorder characterized by severely reduced brain size and mental retardation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000129351	 This gene encodes a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) binding protein that complexes with other proteins, dsRNAs, small noncoding RNAs, and mRNAs to regulate gene expression and stabilize mRNAs. This protein was first discovered to be a subunit of the nuclear factor of activated T-cells (NFAT); a transcription factor required for T-cell expression of interleukin 2. NFAT is a heterodimer of 45 kDa and 90 kDa proteins, the larger of which is the product of this gene. These proteins have been shown to affect the redistribution of nuclear mRNA to the cytoplasm. Knockdown of NF45 or NF90 protein retards cell growth; possibly by inhibition of mRNA stabilization. In contrast, an isoform (NF110) of this gene that is predominantly restricted to the nucleus has only minor effects on cell growth when its levels are reduced. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000102878	 Heat-shock transcription factors (HSFs) activate heat-shock response genes under conditions of heat or other stresses. HSF4 lacks the carboxyl-terminal hydrophobic repeat which is shared among all vertebrate HSFs and has been suggested to be involved in the negative regulation of DNA binding activity. Two alternatively spliced transcripts encoding distinct isoforms and possessing different transcriptional activity have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131873	 This gene encodes a member of the chondroitin N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase family. These enzymes possess dual glucuronyltransferase and galactosaminyltransferase activity and play critical roles in the biosynthesis of chondroitin sulfate, a glycosaminoglycan involved in many biological processes including cell proliferation and morphogenesis. Decreased expression of this gene may play a role in colorectal cancer, and mutations in this gene are a cause of temtamy preaxial brachydactyly syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000213024	 The nuclear pore complex is a massive structure that extends across the nuclear envelope, forming a gateway that regulates the flow of macromolecules between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. Nucleoporins are the main components of the nuclear pore complex in eukaryotic cells. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the FG-repeat containing nucleoporins and is localized to the nuclear pore central plug. This protein associates with the importin alpha/beta complex which is involved in the import of proteins containing nuclear localization signals. Multiple transcript variants of this gene encode a single protein isoform. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000104918	 This gene belongs to the family defined by the mouse resistin-like genes. The characteristic feature of this family is the C-terminal stretch of 10 cys residues with identical spacing. The mouse homolog of this protein is secreted by adipocytes, and may be the hormone potentially linking obesity to type II diabetes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000174099	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the reduction of methionine sulfoxide to methionine. This enzyme acts as a monomer and requires zinc as a cofactor. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. One of the isoforms localizes to mitochondria while the other localizes to endoplasmic reticula. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000131759	 This gene represents a nuclear retinoic acid receptor. The encoded protein, retinoic acid receptor alpha, regulates transcription in a ligand-dependent manner. This gene has been implicated in regulation of development, differentiation, apoptosis, granulopoeisis, and transcription of clock genes. Translocations between this locus and several other loci have been associated with acute promyelocytic leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this locus.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000047410	 This gene encodes a large coiled-coil protein that forms intranuclear filaments attached to the inner surface of nuclear pore complexes (NPCs). The protein directly interacts with several components of the NPC. It is required for the nuclear export of mRNAs and some proteins. Oncogenic fusions of the 5' end of this gene with several different kinase genes occur in some neoplasias. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173638	 The membrane protein encoded by this gene is a transporter of folate and is involved in the regulation of intracellular concentrations of folate. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000185245	 Glycoprotein Ib (GP Ib) is a platelet surface membrane glycoprotein composed of a heterodimer, an alpha chain and a beta chain, that is linked by disulfide bonds. The Gp Ib functions as a receptor for von Willebrand factor (VWF). The complete receptor complex includes noncovalent association of the alpha and beta subunits with platelet glycoprotein IX and platelet glycoprotein V. The binding of the GP Ib-IX-V complex to VWF facilitates initial platelet adhesion to vascular subendothelium after vascular injury, and also initiates signaling events within the platelet that lead to enhanced platelet activation, thrombosis, and hemostasis. This gene encodes the alpha subunit. Several polymorphisms and mutations have been described in this gene, some of which are the cause of Bernard-Soulier syndromes and platelet-type von Willebrand disease. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000074582	 This gene encodes a homolog of the S. cerevisiae bcs1 protein which is involved in the assembly of complex III of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The encoded protein does not contain a mitochondrial targeting sequence but experimental studies confirm that it is imported into mitochondria. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex III deficiency and the GRACILE syndrome. Five alternatively spliced transcripts encoding the same protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000108576	 This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that transports the neurotransmitter serotonin from synaptic spaces into presynaptic neurons. The encoded protein terminates the action of serotonin and recycles it in a sodium-dependent manner. This protein is a target of psychomotor stimulants, such as amphetamines and cocaine, and is a member of the sodium:neurotransmitter symporter family. A repeat length polymorphism in the promoter of this gene has been shown to affect the rate of serotonin uptake and may play a role in sudden infant death syndrome, aggressive behavior in Alzheimer disease patients, and depression-susceptibility in people experiencing emotional trauma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124356	 Cytokine-mediated signal transduction in the JAK-STAT cascade requires the involvement of adaptor molecules. One such signal-transducing adaptor molecule contains an SH3 domain that is required for induction of MYC and cell growth. The protein encoded by this gene binds to the SH3 domain of the signal-transducing adaptor molecule, and plays a critical role in cytokine-mediated signaling for MYC induction and cell cycle progression. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein isoform have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160999	 The protein encoded by this gene is expressed in B lymphocytes and contains pleckstrin homology and src homology 2 (SH2) domains. In Burkitt's lymphoma cell lines, it is tyrosine-phosphorylated in response to B cell receptor stimulation. Because it binds Shc independent of stimulation and Grb2 after stimulation, it appears to play a role in signal transduction from the receptor to the Shc/Grb2 pathway. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000174990	  Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide.  They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid.  They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization.  CA VA is localized in the mitochondria and expressed primarily in the liver.  It may play an important role in ureagenesis and gluconeogenesis.  CA5A gene maps to chromosome 16q24.3 and an unprocessed pseudogene has been assigned to 16p12-p11.2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000185728	 This gene encodes a member of the YTH (YT521-B homology) domain protein family. The YTH domain is common in eukaryotes, is often found in the middle of the protein sequence, and may function in binding to RNA. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013]. 
ENSG00000116962	 This gene encodes a member of the nidogen family of basement membrane glycoproteins. The protein interacts with several other components of basement membranes, and may play a role in cell interactions with the extracellular matrix. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000095370	 This gene encodes an adaptor protein and member of a cytoplasmic protein family involved in cell migration. The encoded protein contains a putative Src homology 2 (SH2) domain and guanine nucleotide exchange factor-like domain which allows this signaling protein to form a complex with scaffolding protein Crk-associated substrate. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000119125	 This gene encodes an enzyme responsible for the hydrolytic deamination of guanine. Studies in rat ortholog suggest this gene plays a role in microtubule assembly. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000044574	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) family. It is localized in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and is involved in the folding and assembly of proteins in the ER. As this protein interacts with many ER proteins, it may play a key role in monitoring protein transport through the cell.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000010361	 This gene encodes a planar cell polarity protein that is involved in ciliogenesis and directional cell movement. Knockout studies in mice exhibit neural tube defects and defective cilia, and mutations in this gene are associated with neural tube defects in humans. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000174125	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans and share structural and functional similarities. They recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that are expressed on infectious agents, and mediate the production of cytokines necessary for the development of effective immunity. The various TLRs exhibit different patterns of expression. This gene is ubiquitously expressed, and at higher levels than other TLR genes. Different length transcripts presumably resulting from use of alternative polyadenylation site, and/or from alternative splicing, have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137462	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans and share structural and functional similarities. They recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that are expressed on infectious agents, and mediate the production of cytokines necessary for the development of effective immunity. The various TLRs exhibit different patterns of expression. This gene is expressed most abundantly in peripheral blood leukocytes, and mediates host response to Gram-positive bacteria and yeast via stimulation of NF-kappaB. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131183	 This gene encodes a member of the type II sodium-phosphate cotransporter family. Mutations in this gene are associated with hypophosphatemia nephrolithiasis/osteoporosis 1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000185499	 This gene encodes a membrane-bound protein that is a member of the mucin family. Mucins are O-glycosylated proteins that play an essential role in forming protective mucous barriers on epithelial surfaces. These proteins also play a role in intracellular signaling. This protein is expressed on the apical surface of epithelial cells that line the mucosal surfaces of many different tissues including lung, breast stomach and pancreas. This protein is proteolytically cleaved into alpha and beta subunits that form a heterodimeric complex. The N-terminal alpha subunit functions in cell-adhesion and the C-terminal beta subunit is involved in cell signaling. Overexpression, aberrant intracellular localization, and changes in glycosylation of this protein have been associated with carcinomas. This gene is known to contain a highly polymorphic variable number tandem repeats (VNTR) domain. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000144647	 This gene encodes a protein with glycosyltransferase activity although its function is not currently known. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000163644	 This gene encodes a member of the PPM family of Mn2+/Mg2+-dependent protein phosphatases. The encoded protein, essential for cell survival and development, is targeted to the mitochondria where it plays a key role in regulation of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000162004	 The product of this gene contains two coiled-coil domains. The function of this gene is currently unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000149547	 This gene has higher expression in p53-expressing cells than in control cells and is an immediate-early induction target of p53-mediated apoptosis. The protein encoded by this gene contains six putative transmembrane domains and may suppress cell growth by inducing apoptotic cell death through the caspase 9 and mitochondrial pathways. This gene is located on human chromosome 11q24, a region frequently altered in cancers. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110203	 This gene encodes a member of the folate receptor (FOLR) family, members of which have a high affinity for folic acid and for several reduced folic acid derivatives, and mediate delivery of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate to the interior of cells. This gene includes two polymorphic variants; the shorter one has two base deletion in the CDS, resulting in a truncated polypeptide, compared to the longer one. Both protein products are constitutively secreted in hematopoietic tissues and are potential serum marker for certain hematopoietic malignancies. The longer protein has a 71% and 79% sequence homology with the FOLR1 and FOLR2 proteins, respectively. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163785	 The protein encoded by this gene is an atypical member of the family of growth factor receptor protein tyrosine kinases, differing from other members at a number of conserved residues in the activation and nucleotide binding domains. This gene product belongs to a subfamily whose members do not appear to be regulated by phosphorylation in the activation segment. It has been suggested that mediation of biological activity by recruitment of a signaling-competent auxiliary protein may occur through an as yet uncharacterized mechanism. The encoded protein has a leucine-rich extracellular domain with a WIF-type Wnt binding region, a single transmembrane domain, and an intracellular tyrosine kinase domain. This protein is involved in stimulating Wnt signaling pathways such as the regulation of axon pathfinding. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000012171	 The semaphorin/collapsin family of molecules plays a critical role in the guidance of growth cones during neuronal development. The secreted protein encoded by this gene family member is important in axonal guidance and has been shown to act as a tumor suppressor by inducing apoptosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000005073	 In vertebrates, the genes encoding the class of transcription factors called homeobox genes are found in clusters named A, B, C, and D on four separate chromosomes. Expression of these proteins is spatially and temporally regulated during embryonic development. This gene is part of the A cluster on chromosome 7 and encodes a DNA-binding transcription factor which may regulate gene expression, morphogenesis, and differentiation. This gene is involved in the regulation of uterine development and is required for female fertility. Mutations in this gene can cause radio-ulnar synostosis with amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000090674	 This gene encodes a memberof the transient receptor potential (TRP) cation channel gene family. The transmembrane protein localizes to intracellular vesicular membranes including lysosomes, and functions in the late endocytic pathway and in the regulation of lysosomal exocytosis. The channel is permeable to Ca(2+), Fe(2+), Na(+), K(+), and H(+), and is modulated by changes in Ca(2+) concentration. Mutations in this gene result in mucolipidosis type IV. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000115486	 This gene encodes an enzyme which catalyzes the posttranslational modification of vitamin K-dependent protein. Many of these vitamin K-dependent proteins are involved in coagulation so the function of the encoded enzyme is essential for hemostasis. Mutations in this gene are associated with vitamin K-dependent coagulation defect and PXE-like disorder with multiple coagulation factor deficiency. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000123146	 This gene encodes a member of the EGF-TM7 subfamily of adhesion G protein-coupled receptors, which mediate cell-cell interactions. These proteins are cleaved by self-catalytic proteolysis into a large extracellular subunit and seven-span transmembrane subunit, which associate at the cell surface as a receptor complex. The encoded protein may play a role in cell adhesion as well as leukocyte recruitment, activation and migration, and contains multiple extracellular EGF-like repeats which mediate binding to chondroitin sulfate and the cell surface complement regulatory protein CD55. Expression of this gene may play a role in the progression of several types of cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms with 3 to 5 EGF-like repeats have been observed for this gene. This gene is found in a cluster with other EGF-TM7 genes on the short arm of chromosome 19. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000008517	 This gene encodes a member of the cytokine family. The protein contains a tyrosine sulfation site, 3 potential N-myristoylation sites, multiple putative phosphorylation sites, and an RGD cell-attachment sequence. Expression of this protein is increased after the activation of T-cells by mitogens or the activation of NK cells by IL-2. This protein induces the production of TNFalpha from macrophage cells. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000254986	 This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the M49 family of metallopeptidases. This cytoplasmic protein binds a single zinc ion with its zinc-binding motif (HELLGH) and has post-proline dipeptidyl aminopeptidase activity, cleaving Xaa-Pro dipeptides from the N-termini of proteins. Increased activity of this protein is associated with endometrial and ovarian cancers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000244038	 This gene encodes a component of the oligosaccharyltransferase complex which catalyzes the transfer of high-mannose oligosaccharides to asparagine residues on nascent polypeptides in the lumen of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. The protein complex co-purifies with ribosomes. The product of this gene is also implicated in the processing of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs), which form from non-enzymatic reactions between sugars and proteins or lipids and are associated with aging and hyperglycemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000258492	 Human chromosomal region 11p15.5 contains two clusters of epigenetically-regulated genes that are expressed from only one chromosome in a parent-of-origin manner. Each cluster, or imprinted domain, is regulated by a functionally independent imprinting control region (ICR). The human CDKN1C/KCNQ1OT1 domain is regulated by an ICR located in an intron of KCNQ1, and contains at least eight genes that are expressed exclusively or preferentially from the maternally-inherited allele. The DNA of the ICR is specifically methylated on the maternally-inherited chromosome, and unmethylated on the paternally-inherited chromosome. The ICR contains the promoter of the KCNQ1OT1 gene that is exclusively expressed from the paternal allele. The KCNQ1OT1 transcript is the antisense to the KCNQ1 gene and is a unspliced long non-coding RNA. It interacts with chromatin and regulates transcription of multiple target genes through epigenetic modifications. The transcript is abnormally expressed from both chromosomes in most patients with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, and the transcript also plays an important role in colorectal carcinogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000141506	 Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases (PI3Ks) phosphorylate the inositol ring of phosphatidylinositol at the 3-prime position, and play important roles in cell growth, proliferation, differentiation, motility, survival and intracellular trafficking. The PI3Ks are divided into three classes: I, II and III, and only the class I PI3Ks are involved in oncogenesis. This gene encodes the 101 kD regulatory subunit of the class I PI3K gamma complex, which is a dimeric enzyme, consisting of a 110 kD catalytic subunit gamma and a regulatory subunit of either 55, 87 or 101 kD. This protein recruits the catalytic subunit from the cytosol to the plasma membrane through high-affinity interaction with G-beta-gamma proteins. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding two distinct isoforms have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000169696	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a UBX domain and interacts with glucose transporter type 4 (GLUT4). This protein is a tether, which sequesters the GLUT4 in intracellular vesicles in muscle and fat cells in the absence of insulin, and redistributes the GLUT4 to the plasma membrane within minutes of insulin stimulation. Translocation t(X;17)(p11;q25) of this gene with transcription factor TFE3 gene results in a ASPSCR1-TFE3 fusion protein in alveolar soft part sarcoma and in renal cell carcinomas. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000114812	 This gene encodes a receptor for vasoactive intestinal peptide, a small neuropeptide. Vasoactive intestinal peptide is involved in smooth muscle relaxation, exocrine and endocrine secretion, and water and ion flux in lung and intestinal epithelia. Its actions are effected through integral membrane receptors associated with a guanine nucleotide binding protein which activates adenylate cyclase. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000112149	 The protein encoded by this gene is a single-pass type I membrane protein and member of the immunoglobulin superfamily of receptors. The encoded protein may be involved in the regulation of antigen presentation. A soluble form of this protein can bind to dendritic cells and inhibit their maturation. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000119041	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of the TFIIIC2 complex, which binds to the promoters of small nuclear and cytoplasmic RNA genes in order to recruit RNA polymerase III. The TFIIIC2 complex is composed of six subunits. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000258992	 The protein encoded by this gene is found only in testicular tissue and may be involved in spermatogenesis. Approximately 35 copies of this gene are present in humans, but only a single, nonfunctional orthologous gene is found in mouse. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000188687	 This gene encodes a member of the sodium bicarbonate cotransporter (NBC) family, part of the bicarbonate transporter superfamily. Sodium bicarbonate cotransporters are involved in intracellular pH regulation and electroneural or electrogenic sodium bicarbonate transport. This protein is thought to be an integral membrane protein. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, but the biological validity of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000150337	 This gene encodes a protein that plays an important role in the immune response. This protein is a high-affinity Fc-gamma receptor. The gene is one of three related gene family members located on chromosome 1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000235590	 This gene produces a paternally-imprinted antisense RNA transcript that helps regulate the GNAS complex locus, which encodes the alpha subunit of the stimulatory G protein. Defects in this gene are a cause of pseudohypoparathyroidism type Ib.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000063587	 This gene encodes a zinc finger protein that appears to be conserved in eutheria. Its function has not yet been established. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000124333	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that is a member of the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) family. The encoded protein localizes to late endosomes and lysosomes and is involved in the fusion of transport vesicles to their target membranes. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000188706	 This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that is a member of the zinc finger DHHC domain-containing protein family. The encoded protein forms a complex with golgin subfamily A member 7 and functions as a palmitoyltransferase. This protein specifically palmitoylates HRAS and NRAS. Mutations in this gene are associated with X-linked mental retardation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000175809	 This gene encodes a member of the zinc finger domain-containing protein family. This family member contains both a RING-type and a C2H2-type of zinc finger domain, and it may function as an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase. Protein localization suggests a role in human sperm production and quality control. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000100320	 This gene is one of several human genes similar to the C. elegans gene Fox-1. This gene encodes an RNA binding protein that is thought to be a key regulator of alternative exon splicing in the nervous system and other cell types. The protein binds to a conserved UGCAUG element found downstream of many alternatively spliced exons and promotes inclusion of the alternative exon in mature transcripts. The protein also interacts with the estrogen receptor 1 transcription factor and regulates estrogen receptor 1 transcriptional activity. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183421	 The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinase that interacts with protein kinase C-delta. The encoded protein can also activate NFkappaB and is required for keratinocyte differentiation. This kinase undergoes autophosphorylation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115657	 The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.  ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes.  ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).  This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance as well as antigen presentation.  This half-transporter likely plays a role in mitochondrial function.  Localized to 2q26, this gene is considered a candidate gene for lethal neonatal metabolic syndrome, a disorder of mitochondrial function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000109471	 The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted cytokine that is important for the proliferation of T and B lymphocytes. The receptor of this cytokine is a heterotrimeric protein complex whose gamma chain is also shared by interleukin 4 (IL4) and interleukin 7 (IL7). The expression of this gene in mature thymocytes is monoallelic, which represents an unusual regulatory mode for controlling the precise expression of a single gene. The targeted disruption of a similar gene in mice leads to ulcerative colitis-like disease, which suggests an essential role of this gene in the immune response to antigenic stimuli. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198934	 This gene encodes an alpha-dystrobrevin-associated MAGE (melanoma-associated antigen) protein, which is a member of the MAGE family. The protein contains a nuclear localization signal in the N-terminus, 30 12-amino acid repeats beginning at nt 60 with the consensus sequence ASEGPSTSVLPT, and two MAGE domains in the C-terminus. It may play a signaling role in brain, muscle, and peripheral nerve. This gene is located on X chromosome in a region containing loci linked to mental retardation. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000138347	 Striated muscle in vertebrates comprises large proteins which must be organized properly to contract efficiently. Z-lines in striated muscle are a sign of this organization, representing the ends of actin thin filaments, titin, nebulin or nebulette and accessory proteins required for structure and function. This gene encodes a protein which interacts with nebulin in skeletal muscle or nebulette in cardiac muscle and alpha-actinin. In addition, this gene product can interact with a protein with the I-band indicating it has a regulatory as well as structural function. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000104825	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the NF-kappa-B inhibitor family, which inhibit NF-kappa-B by complexing with, and trapping it in the cytoplasm. Phosphorylation of serine residues on these proteins by kinases marks them for destruction via the ubiquitination pathway, thereby allowing activation of the NF-kappa-B, which translocates to the nucleus to function as a transcription factor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000169093	 The protein encoded by this gene has an N-terminus that is similar to the multicopy associated filamentation (maf) protein of Bacillus subtilis and to orfE of Escherichia coli, while the C-terminus is similar to N-acetylserotonin O-methyltransferase. This gene is located in the pseudoautosomal region 1 (PAR1) of X and Y chromosomes. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000089225	 This gene is a member of a phylogenetically conserved family of genes that share a common DNA-binding domain, the T-box. T-box genes encode transcription factors involved in the regulation of developmental processes. This gene is closely linked to related family member T-box 3 (ulnar mammary syndrome) on human chromosome 12. The encoded protein may play a role in heart development and specification of limb identity. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Holt-Oram syndrome, a developmental disorder affecting the heart and upper limbs. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145675	 Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase phosphorylates the inositol ring of phosphatidylinositol at the 3-prime position. The enzyme comprises a 110 kD catalytic subunit and a regulatory subunit of either 85, 55, or 50 kD. This gene encodes the 85 kD regulatory subunit. Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase plays an important role in the metabolic actions of insulin, and a mutation in this gene has been associated with insulin resistance. Alternative splicing of this gene results in four transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000170876	 This gene belongs to the TMEM43 family. Defects in this gene are the cause of familial arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia type 5 (ARVD5), also known as arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy type 5 (ARVC5). Arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia is an inherited disorder, often involving both ventricles, and is characterized by ventricular tachycardia, heart failure, sudden cardiac death, and fibrofatty replacement of cardiomyocytes. This gene contains a response element for PPAR gamma (an adipogenic transcription factor), which may explain the fibrofatty replacement of the myocardium, a characteristic pathological finding in ARVC. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000172922	 This gene encodes a ribonuclease H subunit that can cleave ribonucleotides from RNA:DNA duplexes. Mutations in this gene cause Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome-3, a disease that causes severe neurologic dysfunction. A pseudogene for this gene has been identified on chromosome Y, near the sex determining region Y (SRY) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164953	 The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the primary cilium and to the plasma membrane. The gene functions in centriole migration to the apical membrane and formation of the primary cilium. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Defects in this gene are a cause of Meckel syndrome type 3 (MKS3) and Joubert syndrome type 6 (JBTS6). [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000101161	 The protein encoded by this gene appears to be involved in pre-mRNA splicing, possibly acting as a bridging factor between U5 and U4/U6 snRNPs in formation of the spliceosome. The encoded protein also can bind androgen receptor, providing a link between transcriptional activation and splicing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115129	 The protein encoded by this gene is similar to oxidoreductases, which are enzymes involved in cellular responses to oxidative stresses and irradiation. This gene is induced by the tumor suppressor p53 and is thought to be involved in p53-mediated cell death. It contains a p53 consensus binding site in its promoter region and a downstream pentanucleotide microsatellite sequence. P53 has been shown to transcriptionally activate this gene by interacting with the downstream pentanucleotide microsatellite sequence. The microsatellite is polymorphic, with a varying number of pentanucleotide repeats directly correlated with the extent of transcriptional activation by p53. It has been suggested that the microsatellite polymorphism may be associated with differential susceptibility to cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000028116	 This gene encodes a member of the vaccinia-related kinase (VRK) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. This gene is widely expressed in human tissues and has increased expression in actively dividing cells, such as those in testis, leukocytes, fetal liver, and carcinomas. Its protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and has been shown to phosphorylate casein and undergo autophosphorylation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000029639	 The protein encoded by this gene is a dimethyltransferase that methylates the conserved stem loop of mitochondrial 12S rRNA. The encoded protein also is part of the basal mitochondrial transcription complex and is necessary for mitochondrial gene expression. The methylation and transcriptional activities of this protein are independent of one another. Variations in this gene may influence the severity of aminoglycoside-induced deafness (AID).[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSGR0000002586	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cell surface glycoprotein involved in leukocyte migration, T-cell adhesion, ganglioside GM1 and transmembrane protein transport, and T-cell death by a caspase-independent pathway. In addition, the encoded protein may have the ability to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton and may also act as an oncosuppressor in osteosarcoma. Cyclophilin A binds to CD99 and may act as a signaling regulator of CD99. This gene is found in the pseudoautosomal region of chromosomes X and Y and escapes X-chromosome inactivation. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the CD99*001.1.1 allele. 
ENSG00000233429	 This non-coding locus is located in the HOX gene cluster. Transcription of this locus is induced by retinoic acid, and transcripts likely function in regulation of myelopoiesis through transcriptional activation of several genes in the HOXA cluster, in addition to several beta-2 integrins. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000126368	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that is a member of the nuclear receptor subfamily 1. The encoded protein is a ligand-sensitive transcription factor that negatively regulates the expression of core clock proteins. In particular this protein represses the circadian clock transcription factor aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator-like protein 1 (ARNTL). This protein may also be involved in regulating genes that function in metabolic, inflammatory and cardiovascular processes. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000160959	 This gene encodes a leucine-rich repeat-containing protein. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000106367	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of the clathrin coat assembly complex which links clathrin to receptors in coated vesicles. These vesicles are involved in endocytosis and Golgi processing. This protein, as well as beta-prime-adaptin, gamma-adaptin, and the medium (mu) chain AP47, form the AP-1 assembly protein complex located at the Golgi vesicle. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184347	 The protein encoded by this gene is secreted, likely interacting with roundabout homolog receptors to effect cell migration. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000203814	 Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. This structure consists of approximately 146 bp of DNA wrapped around a nucleosome, an octamer composed of pairs of each of the four core histones (H2A, H2B, H3, and H4). The chromatin fiber is further compacted through the interaction of a linker histone, H1, with the DNA between the nucleosomes to form higher order chromatin structures. This gene encodes a member of the histone H2B family and is found in a histone cluster on chromosome 1. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000151067	 This gene encodes an alpha-1 subunit of a voltage-dependent calcium channel. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization. The alpha-1 subunit consists of 24 transmembrane segments and forms the pore through which ions pass into the cell. The calcium channel consists of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. There are multiple isoforms of each of these proteins, either encoded by different genes or the result of alternative splicing of transcripts. The protein encoded by this gene binds to and is inhibited by dihydropyridine. Alternative splicing results in many transcript variants encoding different proteins. Some of the predicted proteins may not produce functional ion channel subunits. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]. 
ENSG00000189114	 This gene encodes a protein that is a component of the BLOC1 multi-subunit protein complex. This complex is necessary for the biogenesis of specialized organelles of the endosomal-lysosomal system, including platelet dense granules and melanosomes. Mutations in this gene cause Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome 8, a disease characterized by lysosomal storage defects, bleeding due to platelet storage pool deficiency, and oculocutaneous albinism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166147	 This gene encodes a member of the fibrillin family. The encoded protein is a large, extracellular matrix glycoprotein that serve as a structural component of 10-12 nm calcium-binding microfibrils. These microfibrils provide force bearing structural support in elastic and nonelastic connective tissue throughout the body. Mutations in this gene are associated with Marfan syndrome, isolated ectopia lentis, autosomal dominant Weill-Marchesani syndrome, MASS syndrome, and Shprintzen-Goldberg craniosynostosis syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100197	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is known to metabolize as many as 20% of commonly prescribed drugs. Its substrates include debrisoquine, an adrenergic-blocking drug; sparteine and propafenone, both anti-arrythmic drugs; and amitryptiline, an anti-depressant. The gene is highly polymorphic in the population; certain alleles result in the poor metabolizer phenotype, characterized by a decreased ability to metabolize the enzyme's substrates. The gene is located near two cytochrome P450 pseudogenes on chromosome 22q13.1. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148660	 The product of this gene is one of the four subunits of an enzyme which belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. Calcium signaling is crucial for several aspects of plasticity at glutamatergic synapses. In mammalian cells the enzyme is composed of four different chains: alpha, beta, gamma, and delta. The product of this gene is a gamma chain. Many alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described but the full-length nature of all the variants has not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000177239	 This gene encodes an enzyme belonging to the glycosyl hydrolase 47 family. This enzyme functions in N-glycan biosynthesis, and is a class I alpha-1,2-mannosidase that specifically converts Man9GlcNAc to Man8GlcNAc isomer B. It is required for N-glycan trimming to Man5-6GlcNAc2 in the endoplasmic-reticulum-associated degradation pathway. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal-recessive intellectual disability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 11. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000088854	 This gene encodes an uncharacterized protein with a C-terminal coiled-coil region. The gene is located on chromosome 20p13 in a 1.8 Mb region linked to a spinocerebellar ataxia phenotype, but this gene does not appear to be a disease candidate. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000147894	 Expansion of a hexanucleotide repeat in non-coding sequence between alternate 5' exons in transcripts from this gene is associated with 9p-linked ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) and FTD (frontotemporal dementia) (PMID: 21944778, 21944779). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000131943	 This gene encodes a small transmembrane protein. Mutations in this gene are a cause of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation-4 (NBIA4), but the specific function of the encoded protein is unknown. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000068028	 This gene encodes a protein similar to the RAS effector proteins. Loss or altered expression of this gene has been associated with the pathogenesis of a variety of cancers, which suggests the tumor suppressor function of this gene. The inactivation of this gene was found to be correlated with the hypermethylation of its CpG-island promoter region. The encoded protein was found to interact with DNA repair protein XPA. The protein was also shown to inhibit the accumulation of cyclin D1, and thus induce cell cycle arrest. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000172660	 This gene encodes a member of the TET family of RNA-binding proteins. The encoded protein plays a role in RNA polymerase II gene transcription as a component of a distinct subset of multi-subunit transcription initiation factor TFIID complexes. Translocations involving this gene play a role in acute leukemia and extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma, and mutations in this gene may play a role in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000104687	 This gene encodes a member of the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase family. This enzyme is a homodimeric flavoprotein. It is a central enzyme of cellular antioxidant defense, and reduces oxidized glutathione disulfide (GSSG) to the sulfhydryl form GSH, which is an important cellular antioxidant. Rare mutations in this gene result in hereditary glutathione reductase deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000144136	 The protein encoded by this gene is a sodium-phosphate symporter that absorbs phosphate from interstitial fluid for use in cellular functions such as metabolism, signal transduction, and nucleic acid and lipid synthesis. The encoded protein is also a retroviral receptor, causing human cells to be susceptible to infection by gibbon ape leukemia virus, simian sarcoma-associated virus, feline leukemia virus subgroup B, and 10A1 murine leukemia virus.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000134243	 This gene encodes a protein that is a multi-ligand type-1 receptor with similarity to the yeast carboxypeptidase Y sorting receptor Vps10 protein. The encoded protein, a trans-Golgi network (TGN) transmembrane protein, binds a number of unrelated ligands that participate in a wide range of cellular processes; however, it lacks the typical features of a signalling receptor. In the TGN, furin mediates the activation of the mature binding form. The encoded protein consists of a large luminal domain, a single transmembrane segment and short C-terminal cytoplasmic tail. The luminal domain contains a cysteine-rich region similar to two corresponding segments in the yeast Vps10p; the cytoplasmic tail is similar to the corresponding segment of the cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor and the tail also interacts with the VHS domains of GGA (Golgi-associated, gamma-adaptin homologous, ARF-interacting) proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000095002	 This locus is frequently mutated in hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC). When cloned, it was discovered to be a human homolog of the E. coli mismatch repair gene mutS, consistent with the characteristic alterations in microsatellite sequences (RER+ phenotype) found in HNPCC. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000172167	 This gene encodes a protein that interacts with the oncoprotein mouse double minute 2. The encoded protein regulates progression through the cell cycle and may be involved in tumor formation. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000205208	 This gene encodes a small, conserved protein of unknown function that is expressed in a variety of tissues. There are pseudogenes for this gene on chromosomes 6, 8, 16, and X. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000168958	 This is a nuclear gene encoding a protein that functions in mitochondrial and peroxisomal fission. The encoded protein recruits dynamin-1-like protein (DNM1L) to mitochondria. There are multiple pseudogenes for this gene on chromosomes 1, 5, and X. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000177303	 This gene encodes a large protein that contains six ankyrin repeats, as well as a Src homology 3 (SH3) domain and two sterile alpha motif (SAM) domains, which may be involved in protein-protein interactions. The C-terminal portion of this protein is proline-rich and contains a conserved region. A related protein interacts with calcium/calmodulin-dependent serine protein kinase (CASK). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000243251	 This gene is a member of a small family of genes derived from piggyBac transposable elements. The encoded protein contains a zinc-ribbon domain characteristic of transposon-derived proteins and may function as a regulator of transcription. Naturally-occurring readthrough transcription occurs between this gene and the adjacent ERCC6 gene (GeneID 2074), and results in a fusion protein that shares sequence with the product of each individual gene. The readthrough locus is represented by GeneID:101243544. There are several pseudogenes for this gene on chromosomes 4, 5 and 12. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000166352	 This gene encodes a protein that was identified as a cellular interacting partner of non-structural protein 10 of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV). The encoded protein may function as a negative regulator of transcription. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]. 
ENSG00000214274	 The protein encoded by this gene is an exceedingly potent mediator of new blood vessel formation. It hydrolyzes cellular tRNAs resulting in decreased protein synthesis and is similar to pancreatic ribonuclease. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding the same protein. This gene and the gene that encodes ribonuclease, RNase A family, 4 share promoters and 5' exons. Each gene splices to a unique downstream exon that contains its complete coding region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000147853	 The protein encoded by this gene is a GTP:ATP phosphotransferase that is found in the mitochondrial matrix. Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000106244	 The protein encoded by this gene is a phosphoprotein that may upregulate the PDGFA-stimulated growth of fibroblasts and also downregulate the mitogenicity of PDGFB. The encoded protein in rodents has been shown to bind PDGFA with a low affinity. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000108556	 Acetylcholine receptors at mature mammalian neuromuscular junctions are pentameric protein complexes composed of four subunits in the ratio of two alpha subunits to one beta, one epsilon, and one delta subunit. The acetylcholine receptor changes subunit composition shortly after birth when the epsilon subunit replaces the gamma subunit seen in embryonic receptors. Mutations in the epsilon subunit are associated with congenital myasthenic syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000108433	 This gene encodes a trafficking membrane protein which transports proteins among the medial- and trans-Golgi compartments. Due to its chromosomal location and trafficking function, this gene may be involved in familial essential hypertension. Three transcript variants encoding three different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105655	 This gene encodes an inositol-3-phosphate synthase enzyme. The encoded protein plays a critical role in the myo-inositol biosynthesis pathway by catalyzing the rate-limiting conversion of glucose 6-phosphate to myoinositol 1-phosphate. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 4. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000028839	 This gene encodes a member of the TATA box-binding protein family. TATA box-binding proteins play a critical role in transcription by RNA polymerase II as components of the transcription factor IID (TFIID) complex. The encoded protein does not bind to the TATA box and initiates transcription from TATA-less promoters. This gene plays a critical role in spermatogenesis, and single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with male infertility. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 3. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000182866	 This gene is a member of the Src family of protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs). The encoded protein is a key signaling molecule in the selection and maturation of developing T-cells. It contains N-terminal sites for myristylation and palmitylation, a PTK domain, and SH2 and SH3 domains which are involved in mediating protein-protein interactions with phosphotyrosine-containing and proline-rich motifs, respectively. The protein localizes to the plasma membrane and pericentrosomal vesicles, and binds to cell surface receptors, including CD4 and CD8, and other signaling molecules. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184588	 This gene is a member of the type IV, cyclic AMP (cAMP)-specific, cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family. Cyclic nucleotides are important second messengers that regulate and mediate a number of cellular responses to extracellular signals, such as hormones, light, and neurotransmitters. The cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases (PDEs) regulate the cellular concentrations of cyclic nucleotides and thereby play a role in signal transduction. This gene encodes a protein that specifically hydrolyzes cAMP. Altered activity of this protein has been associated with schizophrenia and bipolar affective disorder. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157764	 This gene encodes a protein belonging to the raf/mil family of serine/threonine protein kinases. This protein plays a role in regulating the MAP kinase/ERKs signaling pathway, which affects cell division, differentiation, and secretion. Mutations in this gene are associated with cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome, a disease characterized by heart defects, mental retardation and a distinctive facial appearance. Mutations in this gene have also been associated with various cancers, including non-Hodgkin lymphoma, colorectal cancer, malignant melanoma, thyroid carcinoma, non-small cell lung carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma of lung. A pseudogene, which is located on chromosome X, has been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138796	 This gene is a member of the 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase gene family. The encoded protein functions in the mitochondrial matrix to catalyze the oxidation of straight-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoAs as part of the beta-oxidation pathway. Its enzymatic activity is highest with medium-chain-length fatty acids. Mutations in this gene cause one form of familial hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia. The human genome contains a related pseudogene of this gene on chromosome 15. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000139132	 This gene encodes a protein that is involved in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton and cell shape. This protein contains an actin filament-binding domain, which together with its Dbl homology domain and one of its pleckstrin homology domains, can form microspikes. This protein can activate MAPK8 independently of the actin filament-binding domain, and it is also involved in the activation of CDC42 via the exchange of bound GDP for free GTP. The activation of CDC42 also enables this protein to play a role in mediating the cellular invasion of Cryptosporidium parvum, an intracellular parasite that infects the gastrointestinal tract. Mutations in this gene can cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4H (CMT4H), a disorder of the peripheral nervous system. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000121879	 Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase is composed of an 85 kDa regulatory subunit and a 110 kDa catalytic subunit. The protein encoded by this gene represents the catalytic subunit, which uses ATP to phosphorylate PtdIns, PtdIns4P and PtdIns(4,5)P2. This gene has been found to be oncogenic and has been implicated in cervical cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000181634	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This protein is abundantly expressed in endothelial cells, but is not expressed in either B or T cells. The expression of this protein is inducible by TNF and IL-1 alpha. This cytokine is a ligand for receptor TNFRSF25 and decoy receptor TNFRSF21/DR6. It can activate NF-kappaB and MAP kinases, and acts as an autocrine factor to induce apoptosis in endothelial cells. This cytokine is also found to inhibit endothelial cell proliferation, and thus may function as an angiogenesis inhibitor. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000159720	 This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c'', and d. Additional isoforms of many of the V1 and V0 subunit proteins are encoded by multiple genes or alternatively spliced transcript variants. This encoded protein is known as the D subunit and is found ubiquitously. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000242110	 This gene encodes a racemase. The encoded enzyme interconverts pristanoyl-CoA and C27-bile acylCoAs between their (R)- and (S)-stereoisomers. The conversion to the (S)-stereoisomers is necessary for degradation of these substrates by peroxisomal beta-oxidation. Encoded proteins from this locus localize to both mitochondria and peroxisomes. Mutations in this gene may be associated with adult-onset sensorimotor neuropathy, pigmentary retinopathy, and adrenomyeloneuropathy due to defects in bile acid synthesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the upstream neighboring C1QTNF3 (C1q and tumor necrosis factor related protein 3) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000081803	 This gene encodes a member of the calcium-dependent activator of secretion (CAPS) protein family, which are calcium binding proteins that regulate the exocytosis of synaptic and dense-core vesicles in neurons and neuroendocrine cells. Mutations in this gene may contribute to autism susceptibility. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000089250	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of nitric oxide synthases, which synthesize nitric oxide from L-arginine. Nitric oxide is a reactive free radical, which acts as a biologic mediator in several processes, including neurotransmission, and antimicrobial and antitumoral activities. In the brain and peripheral nervous system, nitric oxide displays many properties of a neurotransmitter, and has been implicated in neurotoxicity associated with stroke and neurodegenerative diseases, neural regulation of smooth muscle, including peristalsis, and penile erection. This protein is ubiquitously expressed, with high level of expression in skeletal muscle. Multiple transcript variants that differ in the 5' UTR have been described for this gene but the full-length nature of these transcripts is not known. Additionally, alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms (some testis-specific) have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000198431	 This gene encodes a member of the family of pyridine nucleotide oxidoreductases. This protein reduces thioredoxins as well as other substrates, and plays a role in selenium metabolism and protection against oxidative stress. The functional enzyme is thought to be a homodimer which uses FAD as a cofactor. Each subunit contains a selenocysteine (Sec) residue which is required for catalytic activity. The selenocysteine is encoded by the UGA codon that normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTR of selenocysteine-containing genes have a common stem-loop structure, the sec insertion sequence (SECIS), that is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon rather than as a stop signal. Alternative splicing results in several transcript variants encoding the same or different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000125775	 The protein encoded by this gene contains two class II PDZ domains. PDZ domains facilitate protein-protein interactions by binding to the cytoplasmic C-terminus of transmembrane proteins, and PDZ-containing proteins mediate cell signaling and the organization of protein complexes. The encoded protein binds to phosphatidylinositol 4, 5-bisphosphate (PIP2) and plays a role in nuclear PIP2 organization and cell division. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the upstream FKBP1A (FK506 binding protein 1A, 12kDa) gene, as represented in GeneID:100528031. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000070748	 This gene encodes an enzyme which catalyzes the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. This gene product is a characteristic feature of cholinergic neurons, and changes in these neurons may explain some of the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital myasthenic syndrome associated with episodic apnea. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, and some of these variants have been shown to encode more than one isoform. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000120693	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SMAD family, which transduces signals from TGF-beta family members. The encoded protein is activated by bone morphogenetic proteins and interacts with SMAD4. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000108518	 This gene encodes a member of the profilin family of small actin-binding proteins. The encoded protein plays an important role in actin dynamics by regulating actin polymerization in response to extracellular signals. Deletion of this gene is associated with Miller-Dieker syndrome, and the encoded protein may also play a role in Huntington disease. Multiple pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosome 1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000143919	 This gene encodes a class I protein methyltransferase that acts in the formation of trimethyllysine in calmodulin. The protein contains a AdoMet-binding motif and may play a role in calcium-dependent signaling. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000256049	 This gene encodes a member of the peptidyl arginine deiminase family of enzymes, which catalyze the post-translational deimination of proteins by converting arginine residues into citrullines in the presence of calcium ions. The family members have distinct substrate specificities and tissue-specific expression patterns. This protein may play a role in cytoskeletal reorganization in the egg and in early embryo development. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000101493	 Zinc-finger proteins bind nucleic acids and play important roles in various cellular functions, including cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. This gene encodes a zinc-finger protein, and belongs to the krueppel C2H2-type zinc-finger protein family. It may be involved in transcriptional regulation. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000127463	 This gene encodes a single-pass type I transmembrane protein, which is a subunit of the endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein complex (EMC). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000120915	 This gene encodes a member of the epoxide hydrolase family. The protein, found in both the cytosol and peroxisomes, binds to specific epoxides and converts them to the corresponding dihydrodiols. Mutations in this gene have been associated with familial hypercholesterolemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000143369	 This gene encodes a soluble protein that is involved in endochondral bone formation, angiogenesis, and tumor biology. It also interacts with a variety of extracellular and structural proteins, contributing to the maintenance of skin integrity and homeostasis. Mutations in this gene are associated with lipoid proteinosis disorder (also known as hyalinosis cutis et mucosae or Urbach-Wiethe disease) that is characterized by generalized thickening of skin, mucosae and certain viscera. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000123154	 This gene encodes a member of the WD-40 protein family. The protein is proposed to function as a molecular scaffold for various multimeric protein complexes. The protein associates with several components of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway, and promotes ERK activity in response to serum or other signals. The protein also interacts with egl nine homolog 3 (EGLN3, also known as PHD3) and regulates expression of hypoxia-inducible factor 1, and has been purified as part of the spliceosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000054282	 This gene encodes a centrosome associated protein. This protein may be involved in organizing the centrosome during interphase and mitosis. Mutations in this gene are associated with retinal-renal ciliopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000106144	 This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Caspases mediate cellular apoptosis through the proteolytic cleavage of specific protein substrates. The encoded protein may function in stress-induced cell death pathways, cell cycle maintenance, and the suppression of tumorigenesis. Increased expression of this gene may play a role in neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease and temporal lobe epilepsy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000178222	 This gene encodes a RING finger protein that may function as a ubiquitin ligase. The encoded protein may be involved in meiotic recombination. This gene is located within a linkage disequilibrium block and polymorphisms in this gene may influence recombination rates. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000163931	 This gene encodes a thiamine-dependent enzyme which plays a role in the channeling of excess sugar phosphates to glycolysis in the pentose phosphate pathway. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000182568	 This gene encodes a matrix protein which binds nuclear matrix and scaffold-associating DNAs through a unique nuclear architecture. The protein recruits chromatin-remodeling factors in order to regulate chromatin structure and gene expression. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000213585	 This gene encodes a voltage-dependent anion channel protein that is a major component of the outer mitochondrial membrane. The encoded protein facilitates the exchange of metabolites and ions across the outer mitochondrial membrane and may regulate mitochondrial functions. This protein also forms channels in the plasma membrane and may be involved in transmembrane electron transport. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Multiple pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 1, 2 3, 6, 9, 12, X and Y.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000170893	 This hormone is responsible for the regulation and release of thyroid-stimulating hormone, as well as prolactin. Deficiency of this hormone has been associated with hypothalamic hypothyroidism. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000002745	 The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. It contains two transcript variants diverging at the 5' termini. These two variants are proposed to be the products of separate promoters and not to be splice variants from a single promoter. They are differentially expressed in normal tissues, one of which (variant 2) is expressed at significant levels only in the pancreas, whereas another one (variant 1) is expressed more ubiquitously with highest levels in adult kidney, placenta, brain, heart, and spleen. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136371	 The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 5-formyltetrahydrofolate to 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate, a precursor of reduced folates involved in 1-carbon metabolism. An increased activity of the encoded protein can result in an increased folate turnover rate and folate depletion. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000151923	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of RNA-binding proteins, has three RNA recognition motifs (RRMs), and binds adenine and uridine-rich elements in mRNA and pre-mRNAs of a wide range of genes. It regulates various activities including translational control, splicing and apoptosis. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. The different isoforms have been show to function differently with respect to post-transcriptional silencing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105698	 This gene encodes a member of the basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper family, and can function as a cellular transcription factor. The encoded protein can activate transcription through pyrimidine-rich initiator (Inr) elements and E-box motifs. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000069667	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the NR1 subfamily of nuclear hormone receptors. It can bind as a monomer or as a homodimer to hormone response elements upstream of several genes to enhance the expression of those genes. The specific functions of this protein are not known, but it has been shown to interact with NM23-2, a nucleoside diphosphate kinase involved in organogenesis and differentiation, as well as with NM23-1, the product of a tumor metastasis suppressor candidate gene. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000079616	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the kinesin-like protein family. The family members are microtubule-dependent molecular motors that transport organelles within cells and move chromosomes during cell division. The C-terminal half of this protein has been shown to bind DNA. Studies with the Xenopus homolog suggests its essential role in metaphase chromosome alignment and maintenance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000150995	 This gene encodes an intracellular receptor for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate. Upon stimulation by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, this receptor mediates calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum. Mutations in this gene cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 15, a disease associated with an heterogeneous group of cerebellar disorders. Multiple transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000080345	 This gene encodes a protein that shares homology with the yeast teleomere binding protein, Rap1 interacting factor 1. This protein localizes to aberrant telomeres may be involved in DNA repair. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000134363	  Follistatin is a single-chain gonadal protein that specifically inhibits follicle-stimulating hormone release.  The single FST gene encodes two isoforms, FST317 and FST344 containing 317 and 344 amino acids respectively, resulting from alternative splicing of the precursor mRNA.  In a study in which 37 candidate genes were tested for linkage and association with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) or hyperandrogenemia in 150 families, evidence was found for linkage between PCOS and follistatin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119508	 This gene encodes a member of the steroid-thyroid hormone-retinoid receptor superfamily. The encoded protein may act as a transcriptional activator. The protein can efficiently bind the NGFI-B Response Element (NBRE). Three different versions of extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcomas (EMCs) are the result of reciprocal translocations between this gene and other genes. The translocation breakpoints are associated with Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 4, Group A, Member 3 (on chromosome 9) and either Ewing Sarcome Breakpoint Region 1 (on chromosome 22), RNA Polymerase II, TATA Box-Binding Protein-Associated Factor, 68-KD (on chromosome 17), or Transcription factor 12 (on chromosome 15). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000204852	 This gene encodes a member of the tectonic family of secreted and transmembrane proteins. The orthologous gene in mouse is required for formation of most ventral cell types. It functions downstream of smoothened and rab23 to modulate hedgehog signal transduction. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132639	 Synaptic vesicle membrane docking and fusion is mediated by SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors) located on the vesicle membrane (v-SNAREs) and the target membrane (t-SNAREs). The assembled v-SNARE/t-SNARE complex consists of a bundle of four helices, one of which is supplied by v-SNARE and the other three by t-SNARE. For t-SNAREs on the plasma membrane, the protein syntaxin supplies one helix and the protein encoded by this gene contributes the other two. Therefore, this gene product is a presynaptic plasma membrane protein involved in the regulation of neurotransmitter release. Two alternative transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000241935	 The authors of PMID:20797690 cloned this gene while searching for genes in a region of chromosome 10 linked to primary hyperoxalurea type III. They noted that even though the encoded protein has been described as a mitochondrial dihydrodipicolinate synthase-like enzyme, it shares little homology with E. coli dihydrodipicolinate synthase (Dhdps), particularly in the putative substrate-binding region. Moreover, neither lysine biosynthesis nor sialic acid metabolism, for which Dhdps is responsible, occurs in vertebrate mitochondria. They propose that this gene encodes mitochondrial 4-hydroxyl-2-oxoglutarate aldolase (EC 4.1.3.16), which catalyzes the final step in the metabolic pathway of hydroxyproline, releasing glyoxylate and pyruvate. This gene is predominantly expressed in the liver and kidney, and mutations in this gene are found in patients with primary hyperoxalurea type III. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000184154	 This gene includes two transcript forms. The short form has one open reading frame (ORF), which encodes the leucine-rich repeats (LRR)-containing protein of unknown function. This protein is called LRTOMT1 or LRRC51. The long form has two alternative ORFs; the upstream ORF has the same translation start codon as used in the short form and the resulting transcript is a candidate for nonsense-mediated decay, and the downstream ORF encodes a different protein, which is a transmembrane catechol-O-methyltransferase and is called LRTOMT2, TOMT or COMT2. The COMT2 is essential for auditory and vestibular function. Defects in the COMT2 can cause nonsyndromic deafness. Alternatively spliced transcript variants from each transcript form have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000099904	 This gene encodes a four transmembrane protein that is a member of the zinc finger DHHC domain-containing protein family. The encoded protein may function as a palmitoyltransferase. Defects in this gene may be associated with a susceptibility to schizophrenia. Alternate splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 22.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000165995	 This gene encodes a subunit of a voltage-dependent calcium channel protein that is a member of the voltage-gated calcium channel superfamily. The gene product was originally identified as an antigen target in Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, an autoimmune disorder. Mutations in this gene are associated with Brugada syndrome. Alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000179270	 The protein encoded by this gene is highly expressed in photoreceptors and may associate with the primary cilium of the outer segment. The encoded protein appears to undergo post-translational lipid modification. Nonsense and missense variants of this gene appear to cause a recessive form of retinitis pigmentosa. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000204118	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AC004389.1. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000168487	 This gene encodes a protein that is capable of inducing formation of cartilage in vivo. Although other bone morphogenetic proteins are members of the TGF-beta superfamily, this gene encodes a protein that is not closely related to other known growth factors. This gene is expressed as alternatively spliced variants that share an N-terminal protease domain but differ in their C-terminal region. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000156273	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that belongs to the cap'n'collar type of basic region leucine zipper factor family (CNC-bZip). The encoded protein contains broad complex, tramtrack, bric-a-brac/poxvirus and zinc finger (BTB/POZ) domains, which is atypical of CNC-bZip family members. These BTB/POZ domains facilitate protein-protein interactions and formation of homo- and/or hetero-oligomers. When this encoded protein forms a heterodimer with MafK, it functions as a repressor of Maf recognition element (MARE) and transcription is repressed. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000118526	 TCF21 encodes a transcription factor of the basic helix-loop-helix family. The TCF21 product is mesoderm specific, and expressed in embryonic epicardium, mesenchyme-derived tissues of lung, gut, gonad, and both mesenchymal and glomerular epithelial cells in the kidney. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000075711	 This gene encodes a multi-domain scaffolding protein that is required for normal development. This protein may have a role in septate junction formation, signal transduction, cell proliferation, synaptogenesis and lymphocyte activation. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene, but the full-length nature of some of the variants is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000160049	 Apoptosis is a cell death process that removes toxic and/or useless cells during mammalian development. The apoptotic process is accompanied by shrinkage and fragmentation of the cells and nuclei and degradation of the chromosomal DNA into nucleosomal units. DNA fragmentation factor (DFF) is a heterodimeric protein of 40-kD (DFFB) and 45-kD (DFFA) subunits. DFFA is the substrate for caspase-3 and triggers DNA fragmentation during apoptosis. DFF becomes activated when DFFA is cleaved by caspase-3. The cleaved fragments of DFFA dissociate from DFFB, the active component of DFF. DFFB has been found to trigger both DNA fragmentation and chromatin condensation during apoptosis. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000078114	 This gene encodes a nebulin like protein that is abundantly expressed in cardiac muscle. The encoded protein binds actin and interacts with thin filaments and Z-line associated proteins in striated muscle. This protein may be involved in cardiac myofibril assembly. A shorter isoform of this protein termed LIM nebulette is expressed in non-muscle cells and may function as a component of focal adhesion complexes. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000010671	 The protein encoded by this gene plays a crucial role in B-cell development. Mutations in this gene cause X-linked agammaglobulinemia type 1, which is an immunodeficiency characterized by the failure to produce mature B lymphocytes, and associated with a failure of Ig heavy chain rearrangement. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]. 
ENSG00000198198	 The protein encoded by this gene is expressed in the brain, predominantly in the parietal and frontal cortex as well as in dorsal root ganglia. It is localized to the peroxisome, and is implicated in resistance to oxidative stress. It likely functions by increasing superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, but itself has no direct SOD activity. Studies in mice show that this gene confers low seizure threshold, and may also enhance epileptogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000146383	 This gene encodes a seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor that likely functions as a receptor for endogenous trace amines. Mutations in this gene may be associated with schizophrenia.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000120868	 This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein that initiates apoptosis. This protein contains several copies of the WD-40 domain, a caspase recruitment domain (CARD), and an ATPase domain (NB-ARC). Upon binding cytochrome c and dATP, this protein forms an oligomeric apoptosome. The apoptosome binds and cleaves caspase 9 preproprotein, releasing its mature, activated form. Activated caspase 9 stimulates the subsequent caspase cascade that commits the cell to apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000128951	 This gene encodes an essential enzyme of nucleotide metabolism. The encoded protein forms a ubiquitous, homotetrameric enzyme that hydrolyzes dUTP to dUMP and pyrophosphate. This reaction serves two cellular purposes: providing a precursor (dUMP) for the synthesis of thymine nucleotides needed for DNA replication, and limiting intracellular pools of dUTP. Elevated levels of dUTP lead to increased incorporation of uracil into DNA, which induces extensive excision repair mediated by uracil glycosylase. This repair process, resulting in the removal and reincorporation of dUTP, is self-defeating and leads to DNA fragmentation and cell death. Alternative splicing of this gene leads to different isoforms that localize to either the mitochondrion or nucleus. A related pseudogene is located on chromosome 19. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000055208	 The protein encoded by this gene is an activator of MAP3K7/TAK1, which is required for for the IL-1 induced activation of nuclear factor kappaB and MAPK8/JNK. This protein forms a kinase complex with TRAF6, MAP3K7 and TAB1, thus serves as an adaptor linking MAP3K7 and TRAF6. This protein, TAB1, and MAP3K7 also participate in the signal transduction induced by TNFSF11/RANKl through the activation of the receptor activator of NF-kappB (TNFRSF11A/RANK), which may regulate the development and function of osteoclasts. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000114473	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AC135893.2. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000197275	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the DEAD-like helicase superfamily. It shares similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD54 and RDH54, both of which are involved in homologous recombination and repair of DNA. This protein binds to double-stranded DNA, and displays ATPase activity in the presence of DNA. This gene is highly expressed in testis and spleen, which suggests active roles in meiotic and mitotic recombination. Homozygous mutations of this gene were observed in primary lymphoma and colon cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116641	 The protein encoded by this gene is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) that plays a role in axon formation and neuronal polarization. The encoded protein displays GEF activity toward RAC1 and RAC3 Rho small GTPases but not toward CDC42. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000196511	 This gene encodes a protein, that exists as a homodimer, which catalyzes the conversion of thiamine to thiamine pyrophosphate. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000105650	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family, and PDE4 subfamily. This PDE hydrolyzes the second messenger, cAMP, which is a regulator and mediator of a number of cellular responses to extracellular signals. Thus, by regulating the cellular concentration of cAMP, this protein plays a key role in many important physiological processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000115568	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Kruppel family of C2H2-type zinc finger proteins. It contains 31 C2H2-type zinc fingers and may be involved in transcriptional regulation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000240288	 This gene is an antisense gene of the ghrelin/obestatin prepropeptide gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified and they may function as non-coding regulatory RNAs. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000136485	 This gene encodes a protein with multiple WD40 repeats which facilitate protein-protein interactions and thereby enable the assembly of multiprotein complexes. This protein has been shown to function as a scaffold protein for protein complexes involved in kinase signalling. This highly conserved gene is present in eukaryotic plants, fungi, and animals. The ortholog of this gene was first identified in plants as a key regulator of anthocyanin biosynthesis and flower pigmentation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000136878	 This gene encodes a ubiquitin specific processing protease that was first identified as a substrate of the VHL (von Hippel-Lindau disease) protein E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. In addition to being ubiquitinated by the VHL-E3 ligase complex, this enzyme deubiquitinates hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1 alpha and thereby causes increased expression of HIF-1alpha targeted genes which play a role in angiogenesis, glucose metabolism, cell proliferation and metastasis. The enzyme encoded by this gene also regulates G-protein coupled receptor signaling by mediating the deubiquitination of beta-2 adrenergic receptor (ADRB2). This enzyme is a ubiquitously expressed thiolester hydrolase. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000113368	 The nuclear lamina consists of a two-dimensional matrix of proteins located next to the inner nuclear membrane. The lamin family of proteins make up the matrix and are highly conserved in evolution. During mitosis, the lamina matrix is reversibly disassembled as the lamin proteins are phosphorylated. Lamin proteins are thought to be involved in nuclear stability, chromatin structure and gene expression. Vertebrate lamins consist of two types, A and B. This gene encodes one of the two B type proteins, B1. Alternative splicing results in transcript variants and a duplication of this gene is associated with autosomal dominant adult-onset leukodystrophy (ADLD). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000104064	 This gene encodes the GA-binding protein transcription factor, beta subunit. This protein forms a tetrameric complex with the alpha subunit, and stimulates transcription of target genes. The encoded protein may be involved in activation of cytochrome oxidase expression and nuclear control of mitochondrial function. The crystal structure of a similar protein in mouse has been resolved as a ternary protein complex. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000152782	 This gene encodes a member of the pantothenate kinase family. Pantothenate kinases are key regulatory enzymes in the biosynthesis of coenzyme A (CoA). The encoded protein catalyzes the first and rate-limiting enzymatic reaction in CoA biosynthesis and is regulated by CoA through feedback inhibition. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. This gene and an intronic miRNA on the same strand are co-regulated by the tumor suppressor p53 (see PMID 20833636). [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000135374	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of an epithelium-specific subclass of the Ets transcritpion factor family. In addition to its role in regulating the later stages of terminal differentiation of keratinocytes, it appears to regulate a number of epithelium-specific genes found in tissues containing glandular epithelium such as salivary gland and prostate. It has very low affinity to DNA due to its negative regulatory domain at the amino terminus. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000086967	 This gene encodes a member of the myosin-binding protein C family. This family includes the fast-, slow- and cardiac-type isoforms, each of which is a myosin-associated protein found in the cross-bridge-bearing zone (C region) of A bands in striated muscle. The protein encoded by this locus is referred to as the fast-type isoform. Mutations in the related but distinct genes encoding the slow-type and cardiac-type isoforms have been associated with distal arthrogryposis, type 1 and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, respectively. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000101336	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Src family of tyrosine kinases. This protein is primarily hemopoietic, particularly in cells of the myeloid and B-lymphoid lineages. It may help couple the Fc receptor to the activation of the respiratory burst. In addition, it may play a role in neutrophil migration and in the degranulation of neutrophils. Multiple isoforms with different subcellular distributions are produced due to both alternative splicing and the use of alternative translation initiation codons, including a non-AUG (CUG) codon. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000187961	 The protein encoded by this gene is expressed in neurons of most regions of the brain. It contains an N-terminal BTB domain, which mediates dimerization of the protein, and a C-terminal Kelch domain, which mediates binding to F-actin. This protein may play a key role in the regulation of actin-based neuronal function. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000109971	 This gene encodes a member of the heat shock protein 70 family, which contains both heat-inducible and constitutively expressed members. This protein belongs to the latter group, which are also referred to as heat-shock cognate proteins. It functions as a chaperone, and binds to nascent polypeptides to facilitate correct folding. It also functions as an ATPase in the disassembly of clathrin-coated vesicles during transport of membrane components through the cell. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000173585	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the beta chemokine receptor family. It is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors. Chemokines and their receptors are key regulators of the thymocytes migration and maturation in normal and inflammation conditions. The specific ligand of this receptor is CCL25. It has been found that this gene is differentially expressed by T lymphocytes of small intestine and colon, suggested a role in the thymocytes recruitment and development that may permit functional specialization of immune responses in different segment of the gastrointestinal tract. This gene is mapped to the chemokine receptor gene cluster region. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000069275	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein that is highly conserved in vertebrates. The conserved regions of the protein contain several consensus phosphorylation sites for casein kinase II and cyclin-dependent kinases, two putative nuclear localization signals, and a basic DNA-binding domain. It is phosphorylated in vivo by Cdk1 during mitosis of the cell cycle. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000114626	 This gene encodes a protein with an ankyrin repeat region and two BTB/POZ domains, which are thought to be involved in protein-protein interactions. Expression of this gene is activated by the phosphatase and tensin homolog, a tumor suppressor. Alternate splicing results in three transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000154645	 This gene encodes a type I membrane protein with a carbohydrate recognition domain characteristic of C-type lectins in its extracellular portion. In other proteins, this domain is involved in endocytosis of glycoproteins and exogenous sugar-bearing pathogens. This protein localizes predominantly to the perinuclear region. Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000138684	 This gene encodes a member of the common-gamma chain family of cytokines with immunoregulatory activity. The encoded protein plays a role in both the innate and adaptive immune responses by inducing the differentiation, proliferation and activity of multiple target cells including macrophages, natural killer cells, B cells and cytotoxic T cells. Dysregulation of this gene plays a role in multiple immune-mediated diseases including lupus, psoriasis and chronic inflammatory diseases. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000130649	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is induced by ethanol, the diabetic state, and starvation. The enzyme metabolizes both endogenous substrates, such as ethanol, acetone, and acetal, as well as exogenous substrates including benzene, carbon tetrachloride, ethylene glycol, and nitrosamines which are premutagens found in cigarette smoke. Due to its many substrates, this enzyme may be involved in such varied processes as gluconeogenesis, hepatic cirrhosis, diabetes, and cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000174640	 This gene encodes a prostaglandin transporter that is a member of the 12-membrane-spanning superfamily of transporters. The encoded protein may be involved in mediating the uptake and clearance of prostaglandins in numerous tissues. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000178053	 This gene encodes an oncoprotein which is thought to play a role in the phenotypic determination of hemopoetic cells. Translocations between this gene and nucleophosmin have been associated with myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000143469	 This gene is a member of the synaptotagmin gene family and encodes a protein similar to other family members that mediate membrane trafficking in synaptic transmission. The encoded protein is a calcium-independent synaptotagmin. Mutations in this gene are a cause of autosomal recessive spinocerebellar ataxia-11 (SCAR11), and a t(1;3) translocation of this gene has been associated with neurodevelopmental abnormalities. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 4. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000088053	 This gene encodes a platelet membrane glycoprotein of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein is a receptor for collagen and plays a critical role in collagen-induced platelet aggregation and thrombus formation. The encoded protein forms a complex with the Fc receptor gamma-chain that initiates the platelet activation signaling cascade upon collagen binding. Mutations in this gene are a cause of platelet-type bleeding disorder-11 (BDPLT11). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000151338	 This gene encodes a coiled-coil domain-containing protein. The encoded protein may function as a tumor suppressor. A translocation that results in truncation of the protein encoded by this locus has been associated with mirror-image polydactyly, also known as Laurin-Sandrow Syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000105953	 This gene encodes one subunit of the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex. This complex catalyzes the overall conversion of 2-oxoglutarate (alpha-ketoglutarate) to succinyl-CoA and CO(2) during the Krebs cycle. The protein is located in the mitochondrial matrix and uses thiamine pyrophosphate as a cofactor. A congenital deficiency in 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase activity is believed to lead to hypotonia, metabolic acidosis, and hyperlactatemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000170836	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PP2C family of Ser/Thr protein phosphatases. PP2C family members are known to be negative regulators of cell stress response pathways. The expression of this gene is induced in a p53-dependent manner in response to various environmental stresses. While being induced by tumor suppressor protein TP53/p53, this phosphatase negatively regulates the activity of p38 MAP kinase, MAPK/p38, through which it reduces the phosphorylation of p53, and in turn suppresses p53-mediated transcription and apoptosis. This phosphatase thus mediates a feedback regulation of p38-p53 signaling that contributes to growth inhibition and the suppression of stress induced apoptosis. This gene is located in a chromosomal region known to be amplified in breast cancer. The amplification of this gene has been detected in both breast cancer cell line and primary breast tumors, which suggests a role of this gene in cancer development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164398	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the formation of acyl-CoA from fatty acids, ATP, and CoA, using magnesium as a cofactor. The encoded protein plays a major role in fatty acid metabolism in the brain. Translocations with the ETV6 gene are causes of myelodysplastic syndrome with basophilia, acute myelogenous leukemia with eosinophilia, and acute eosinophilic leukemia. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000140688	 This gene encodes a putative transmembrane protein containing a conserved DUF647 domain that may be involved in protein-protein interaction. The encoded protein is related to a plant protein that participates in ultraviolet B light-sensing during root morphogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000196365	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial matrix protein that belongs to the Lon family of ATP-dependent proteases. This protein mediates the selective degradation of misfolded, unassembled or oxidatively damaged polypeptides in the mitochondrial matrix. It may also have a chaperone function in the assembly of inner membrane protein complexes, and participate in the regulation of mitochondrial gene expression and maintenance of the integrity of the mitochondrial genome. Decreased expression of this gene has been noted in a patient with hereditary spastic paraplegia (PMID:18378094). Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000204466	 The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that phosphorylates diacylglycerol, converting it to phosphatidic acid. The encoded protein is a membrane protein and is inhibited by hydrogen peroxide. Variations in this gene have been associated with hypospadias. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000125084	 The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. It is very conserved in evolution, and the protein encoded by this gene is known to be 98% identical to the mouse Wnt1 protein at the amino acid level. The studies in mouse indicate that the Wnt1 protein functions in the induction of the mesencephalon and cerebellum. This gene was originally considered as a candidate gene for Joubert syndrome, an autosomal recessive disorder with cerebellar hypoplasia as a leading feature. However,  further studies suggested that the gene mutations might not have a significant role in Joubert syndrome. This gene is clustered with another family member, WNT10B, in the chromosome 12q13 region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184857	 This gene encodes a potential transmembrane protein. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000167920	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AC090283.7. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000197563	 This gene encodes a protein that is involved in glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchor biosynthesis. The GPI-anchor is a glycolipid found on many blood cells and serves to anchor proteins to the cell surface. This protein is expressed in the endoplasmic reticulum and transfers phosphoethanolamine (EtNP) to the first mannose of the GPI anchor. Two alternatively spliced variants, which encode an identical isoform, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000150779	 This gene encodes a member of a well-conserved family of proteins with similarity to yeast Tim mitochondrial import proteins. This gene is encoded by a nuclear gene and is transported into the intermembrane space of the mitochondrion. When formed into complexes, these proteins guide membrane-spanning proteins across the mitochondrial intermembrane space before they are added into the mitochondrial inner membrane. This gene is adjacent to succinate dehydrogenase, subunit D (SDHD), in which mutations have been found in affected members of families with hereditary paraganglioma.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000125356	 The human NDUFA1 gene codes for an essential component of complex I of the respiratory chain, which transfers electrons from NADH to ubiquinone. It has been noted that the N-terminal hydrophobic domain has the potential to be folded into an alpha-helix spanning the inner mitochondrial membrane with a C-terminal hydrophilic domain interacting with globular subunits of complex I. The highly conserved two-domain structure suggests that this feature is critical for the protein function and might act as an anchor for the NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex at the inner mitochondrial membrane. However, the NDUFA1 peptide is one of about 31 components of the 'hydrophobic protein' (HP) fraction of complex I which is involved in proton translocation. Thus the NDUFA1 peptide may also participate in that function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000185960	 This gene belongs to the paired homeobox family and is located in the pseudoautosomal region 1 (PAR1) of X and Y chromosomes. Defects in this gene are associated with idiopathic growth retardation and in the short stature phenotype of Turner syndrome patients. This gene is highly conserved across species from mammals to fish to flies. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000118495	 This gene encodes a C2H2 zinc finger protein with transactivation and DNA-binding activities. It has been shown to have anti-proliferative properties, and thus thought to function as a tumor suppressor. In addition, overexpression of this gene during fetal development is believed to underlie the rare disorder, transient neonatal diabetes mellitus (TNDM). This gene is imprinted, with preferential expression of the paternal allele in many tissues, however, biallelic expression has been noted in peripheral blood leucocytes. A recent study reports that tissue-specific imprinting results from variable utilization of monoallelic and biallelic promoters. Many transcript variants differing in the 5' UTR and encoding two different isoforms, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000214827	 This gene was identified by involvement in some t(X;14) translocations associated with mature T-cell proliferations. This region has a complex gene structure, with a common promoter and 5' exon spliced to two different sets of 3' exons that encode two different proteins. This gene represents the upstream 13 kDa protein that is a member of the TCL1 family. This protein may be involved in leukemogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000177666	 This gene encodes an enzyme which catalyzes the first step in the hydrolysis of triglycerides in adipose tissue. Mutations in this gene are associated with neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000136698	 This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor (EGF)- Cripto, Frl-1, and Cryptic (CFC) family, which are involved in signalling during embryonic development. Proteins in this family share a variant EGF-like motif, a conserved cysteine-rich domain, and a C-terminal hydrophobic region. The protein encoded by this gene is necessary for patterning the left-right embryonic axis. Mutations in this gene are associated with defects in organ development, including autosomal visceral heterotaxy and congenital heart disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000101464	 The protein encoded by this gene shares similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc91, a predicted integral membrane protein that may function in cell division control. The protein encoded by this gene is the fifth subunit of GPI transamidase that attaches GPI-anchors to proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132376	 This gene encodes a protein with 5-phosphatase activity toward polyphosphate inositol. The protein localizes to the cytosol in regions lacking actin stress fibers. It is thought that this protein may negatively regulate the actin cytoskeleton. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000091129	 Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) are members of the immunoglobulin superfamily. This gene encodes a neuronal cell adhesion molecule with multiple immunoglobulin-like C2-type domains and fibronectin type-III domains. This ankyrin-binding protein is involved in neuron-neuron adhesion and promotes directional signaling during axonal cone growth. This gene is also expressed in non-neural tissues and may play a general role in cell-cell communication via signaling from its intracellular domain to the actin cytoskeleton during directional cell migration. Allelic variants of this gene have been associated with autism and addiction vulnerability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137261	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that contains a large extracellular domain with multiple polycystic kidney disease (PKD) domains. The encoded protein may play a role in the development of the cerebral cortex by regulating neuronal migration and cell adhesion. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene are associated with dyslexia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000107223	 This gene encodes a protein that may regulate endothelial cell differentiation. It has been postulated that the protein functions as a bridging molecule that interconnects regulatory proteins and the basal transcriptional machinery, thereby modulating the transcription of genes involved in endothelial differentiation. This protein has also been found to act as a transcriptional coactivator by interconnecting the general transcription factor TATA element-binding protein (TBP) and gene-specific activators. Two alternatively spliced transcripts which encode distinct proteins have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000162772	 This gene encodes a member of the mammalian activation transcription factor/cAMP responsive element-binding (CREB) protein family of transcription factors. This gene is induced by a variety of signals, including many of those encountered by cancer cells, and is involved in the complex process of cellular stress response. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. It is possible that alternative splicing of this gene may be physiologically important in the regulation of target genes. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000104964	 The protein encoded by this gene is similar in sequence to the amino terminus of Drosophila enhancer of split groucho, a protein involved in neurogenesis during embryonic development. The encoded protein, which belongs to the groucho/TLE family of proteins, can function as a homooligomer or as a heteroologimer with other family members to dominantly repress the expression of other family member genes. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170312	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This protein is a catalytic subunit of the highly conserved protein kinase complex known as M-phase promoting factor (MPF), which is essential for G1/S and G2/M phase transitions of eukaryotic cell cycle. Mitotic cyclins stably associate with this protein and function as regulatory subunits. The kinase activity of this protein is controlled by cyclin accumulation and destruction through the cell cycle. The phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of this protein also play important regulatory roles in cell cycle control. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000197081	 This gene encodes a receptor for both insulin-like growth factor 2 and mannose 6-phosphate, although the binding sites for either are located on different segments of the receptor. This receptor functions in the intracellular trafficking of lysosomal enzymes, the activation of transforming growth factor beta, and the degradation of insulin-like growth factor 2. While the related mouse gene shows exclusive expression from the maternal allele, imprinting of the human gene appears to be polymorphic, with only a minority of individuals showing expression from the maternal allele. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013]. 
ENSG00000119042	 This gene encodes a DNA binding protein that specifically binds nuclear matrix attachment regions. The encoded protein is involved in transcription regulation and chromatin remodeling. Defects in this gene are associated with isolated cleft palate and mental retardation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000107331	 The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily. Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. This protein is highly expressed in brain tissue and may play a role in macrophage lipid metabolism and neural development. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000119685	 This gene encodes a member of the tubulin tyrosine ligase like protein family. This protein interacts with two glucocorticoid receptor coactivators, transcriptional intermediary factor 2 and steroid receptor coactivator 1. This protein may function as a coregulator of glucocorticoid receptor mediated gene induction and repression. This protein may also function as an alpha tubulin polyglutamylase.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000144028	 Pre-mRNA splicing is catalyzed by the spliceosome, a complex of specialized RNA and protein subunits that removes introns from a transcribed pre-mRNA segment. The spliceosome consists of small nuclear RNA proteins (snRNPs) U1, U2, U4, U5 and U6, together with approximately 80 conserved proteins. U5 snRNP contains nine specific proteins. This gene encodes one of the U5 snRNP-specific proteins. This protein belongs to the DEXH-box family of putative RNA helicases. It is a core component of U4/U6-U5 snRNPs and appears to catalyze an ATP-dependent unwinding of U4/U6 RNA duplices. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal-dominant retinitis pigmentosa. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found, but the full-length nature of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000137745	 Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. The protein encoded by this gene cleaves type II collagen more efficiently than types I and III. It may be involved in articular cartilage turnover and cartilage pathophysiology associated with osteoarthritis. The gene is part of a cluster of MMP genes which localize to chromosome 11q22.3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000008735	 The protein encoded by this gene is closely related to MAPK8IP1/IB1/JIP-1, a scaffold protein that is involved in the c-Jun amino-terminal kinase signaling pathway. This protein is expressed in brain and pancreatic cells. It has been shown to interact with, and regulate the activity of MAPK8/JNK1, and MAP2K7/MKK7 kinases. This protein thus is thought to function as a regulator of signal transduction by protein kinase cascade in brain and pancreatic beta-cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187008	 This gene encodes a member of the polycystin protein family. The encoded protein contains 11 transmembrane domains, a latrophilin/CL-1-like GPCR proteolytic site (GPS) domain, and a polycystin-1, lipoxygenase, alpha-toxin (PLAT) domain. This protein may function as a component of cation channel pores.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000185340	 The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the GAS2 family, is similar in sequence to the mouse protein Gas2, an actin-associated protein expressed at high levels in growth-arrested cells. Expression of the mouse Gas2 gene is negatively regulated by serum and growth factors. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167748	 Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases having diverse physiological functions. Growing evidence suggests that many kallikreins are implicated in carcinogenesis and some have potential as novel cancer and other disease biomarkers. This gene is one of the fifteen kallikrein subfamily members located in a cluster on chromosome 19. This protein is functionally conserved in its capacity to release the vasoactive peptide, Lys-bradykinin, from low molecular weight kininogen. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000158571	 This gene encodes a member of the family of bifunctional 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase:fructose-2,6-biphosphatase enzymes. The enzyme forms a homodimer that catalyzes both the synthesis and degradation of fructose-2,6-biphosphate using independent catalytic domains. Fructose-2,6-biphosphate is an activator of the glycolysis pathway and an inhibitor of the gluconeogenesis pathway. Consequently, regulating fructose-2,6-biphosphate levels through the activity of this enzyme is thought to regulate glucose homeostasis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]. 
ENSG00000172638	 A large number of extracellular matrix proteins have been found to contain variations of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) domain and have been implicated in functions as diverse as blood coagulation, activation of complement and determination of cell fate during development. The protein encoded by this gene contains four EGF2 domains and six calcium-binding EGF2 domains. This gene is necessary for elastic fiber formation and connective tissue development. Defects in this gene are cause of an autosomal recessive cutis laxa syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000172893	 This gene encodes an enzyme that removes the C(7-8) double bond in the B ring of sterols and catalyzes the conversion of 7-dehydrocholesterol to cholesterol. This gene is ubiquitously expressed and its transmembrane protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and nuclear outer membrane. Mutations in this gene cause Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS); a syndrome that is metabolically characterized by reduced serum cholesterol levels and elevated serum 7-dehydrocholesterol levels and phenotypically characterized by mental retardation, facial dysmorphism, syndactyly of second and third toes, and holoprosencephaly in severe cases to minimal physical abnormalities and near-normal intelligence in mild cases. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000145050	 The protein encoded by this gene is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and golgi, and is also secreted. Reducing expression of this gene increases susceptibility to ER stress-induced death and promotes cell proliferation. The protein was initially thought to be longer at the N-terminus and to contain an arginine-rich region but transcribed evidence indicates a smaller open reading frame that does not encode the arginine tract. The presence of polymorphisms in the arginine-rich region, including a specific mutation that changes the previously numbered codon 50 from ATG to AGG, have been reported in a variety of solid tumors; however, these polymorphisms were later shown to exist in normal tissues and are thus not tumor-related. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000189056	 This gene encodes a large secreted extracellular matrix protein thought to control cell-cell interactions critical for cell positioning and neuronal migration during brain development. This protein may be involved in schizophrenia, autism, bipolar disorder, major depression and in migration defects associated with temporal lobe epilepsy. Mutations of this gene are associated with autosomal recessive lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. Other transcript variants have been described but their full length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123815	 This gene encodes a protein with two copies of a domain found in protein kinases. The encoded protein has a complete protein kinase catalytic domain, and a truncated domain that contains only the active and binding sites of the protein kinase domain, however, it is not known whether the protein has any kinase activity. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000176058	 This locus encodes a sensory epithelial protein. It was defined by linkage analysis in three Pakistani families to lie between D9S1818 (centromeric) and D9SH6 (telomeric). Mutations at this locus have been associated with autosomal recessive deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000120053	 Glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase is a pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzyme which exists in cytoplasmic and mitochondrial forms, GOT1 and GOT2, respectively.  GOT plays a role in amino acid metabolism and the urea and tricarboxylic acid cycles. The two enzymes are homodimeric and show close homology. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000127472	 This gene is a member of the secretory phospholipase A2 family. It is located in a tightly-linked cluster of secretory phospholipase A2 genes on chromosome 1. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of membrane phospholipids to generate lysophospholipids and free fatty acids including arachidonic acid. It preferentially hydrolyzes linoleoyl-containing phosphatidylcholine substrates. Secretion of this enzyme is thought to induce inflammatory responses in neighboring cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000179981	 This gene encodes a colon cancer antigen that was defined by serological analysis of recombinant cDNA expression libraries. The encoded protein is a member of the teashirt C2H2-type zinc-finger protein family and may be involved in transcriptional regulation of developmental processes. Mutations in this gene may be associated with congenital aural atresia syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000106462	 This gene encodes a member of the Polycomb-group (PcG) family. PcG family members form multimeric protein complexes, which are involved in maintaining the transcriptional repressive state of genes over successive cell generations. This protein associates with the embryonic ectoderm development protein, the VAV1 oncoprotein, and the X-linked nuclear protein. This protein may play a role in the hematopoietic and central nervous systems. Multiple alternatively splcied transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000156097	 This gene belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. G protein-coupled receptors contain 7 transmembrane domains and transduce extracellular signals through heterotrimeric G proteins. The protein encoded by this gene is most closely related to biogenic amine receptors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000156650	 The protein encoded by this gene is a histone acetyltransferase and component of the MOZ/MORF protein complex. In addition to its acetyltransferase activity, the encoded protein has transcriptional activation activity in its N-terminal end and transcriptional repression activity in its C-terminal end. This protein is necessary for RUNX2-dependent transcriptional activation and could be involved in brain development. Mutations have been found in patients with genitopatellar syndrome. A translocation of this gene and the CREBBP gene results in acute myeloid leukemias. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000155755	 The protein encoded by this gene is a tetraspanin protein that is thought to be involved in WNT signaling. Defects in this gene are a cause of Joubert syndrome-14. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000197798	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AP001893.5, AP000717.5 and AP001318.6. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000104093	 This gene encodes a protein with 12 WD domains. Proteins with WD domains are involved in many functions including participation in signal transduction pathways. Participation of the encoded protein in regulation of the Notch signaling pathway has been demonstrated in vitro using several human cell lines (PMID:20810660). A gene encoding a similar protein is located on chromosome 5. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000074181	 This gene encodes the third discovered human homologue of the Drosophilia melanogaster type I membrane protein notch. In Drosophilia, notch interaction with its cell-bound ligands (delta, serrate) establishes an intercellular signalling pathway that plays a key role in neural development. Homologues of the notch-ligands have also been identified in human, but precise interactions between these ligands and the human notch homologues remains to be determined. Mutations in NOTCH3 have been identified as the underlying cause of cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131495	 The encoded protein is a subunit of the hydrophobic protein fraction of the NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex 1), the first enzyme complex in the electron transport chain located in the inner mitochondrial membrane, and may be involved in regulating complex I activity or its assembly via assistance in redox processes. Mutations in this gene are associated with Leigh syndrome, an early-onset progressive neurodegenerative disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000106128	 This gene encodes a receptor for growth hormone-releasing hormone. Binding of this hormone to the receptor leads to synthesis and release of growth hormone. Mutations in this gene have been associated with isolated growth hormone deficiency (IGHD), also known as Dwarfism of Sindh, a disorder characterized by short stature. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000112855	 Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme belonging to the class II family of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. Functioning in the synthesis of histidyl-transfer RNA, the enzyme plays an accessory role in the regulation of protein biosynthesis. The gene is located in a head-to-head orientation with HARS on chromosome five, where the homologous genes share a bidirectional promoter. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000186376	 This gene encodes a protein that likely functions as a transcription factor. The protein, which belongs to the ZNF75 family, includes an N-terminal SCAN domain, a KRAB box, and five C2H2-type zinc finger motifs. Another functional gene belonging to this family is located on chromosome 16, while pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 11 and 12. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcripts variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000234438	 The gene belongs to a family of genes encoding proteins containing a BTB domain and several kelch repeats. The BTB domain functions as a protein-protein interaction module, which includes an ability to self-associate or to interact with non-BTB domain-containing proteins. The kelch motif typically occurs in groups of five to seven repeats, and has been found in proteins with diverse functions. Known functions of these family members include transcription regulation, ion channel tetramerization and gating, protein ubiquitination or degradation, and cytoskeleton regulation. The exact function of this family member has yet to be determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000080603	 This gene encodes the core catalytic component of the multiprotein chromatin-remodeling SRCAP complex. The encoded protein is an ATPase that is necessary for the incorporation of the histone variant H2A.Z into nucleosomes. It can function as a transcriptional activator in Notch-mediated, CREB-mediated and steroid receptor-mediated transcription. Mutations in this gene cause Floating-Harbor syndrome, a rare disorder characterized by short stature, language deficits and dysmorphic facial features. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000101361	 Nop56p is a yeast nucleolar protein that is part of a complex with the nucleolar proteins Nop58p and fibrillarin. Nop56p is required for assembly of the 60S ribosomal subunit and is involved in pre-rRNA processing. The protein encoded by this gene is similar in sequence to Nop56p and is also found in the nucleolus. Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene, but the full-length nature of most of them has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000134871	 This gene encodes one of the six subunits of type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes. The C-terminal portion of the protein, known as canstatin, is an inhibitor of angiogenesis and tumor growth. Like the other members of the type IV collagen gene family, this gene is organized in a head-to-head conformation with another type IV collagen gene so that each gene pair shares a common promoter. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131871	 This gene encodes a selenoprotein, which contains a selenocysteine (Sec) residue at its active site. The selenocysteine is encoded by the UGA codon that normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTR of selenoprotein genes have a common stem-loop structure, the sec insertion sequence (SECIS), that is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon rather than as a stop signal. Studies suggest that this protein may regulate cytokine production, and thus play a key role in the control of the inflammatory response. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165169	 This gene encodes a member of a subclass of dynein light chains. The encoded protein homodimerizes and forms the light chain component of the cytoplasmic dynein motor protein complex. This protein may be important for binding dynein to specific cargos including the spindle checkpoint protein BUB3. This protein may also function independently of dynein as a transcriptional modulator. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 2 and 20.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000148606	 The protein encoded by this gene is the catalytic component of RNA polymerase III, which synthesizes small RNAs. The encoded protein also acts as a sensor to detect foreign DNA and trigger an innate immune response. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000162889	 This gene encodes a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This kinase is regulated through direct phosphorylation by p38 MAP kinase. In conjunction with p38 MAP kinase, this kinase is known to be involved in many cellular processes including stress and inflammatory responses, nuclear export, gene expression regulation and cell proliferation. Heat shock protein HSP27 was shown to be one of the substrates of this kinase in vivo. Two transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143748	 This gene encodes a member of the AAA (ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities) superfamily. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Two encoded proteins, described as major and minor isoforms, have been localized to distinct regions of the nucleus. The largest encoded protein (major isoform) has been localized to the nucleolus and shown to participate in ribosome biosynthesis (PMID: 15469983, 16782053), while the minor isoform has been localized to the nucleoplasmin. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000242284	 This gene represents one of a cluster of six similar genes located on the q arm of chromosome X. The genes in this cluster encode members of the cancer/testis (CT) family of antigens, and are distinct from other CT antigens. These antigens are thought to be novel therapeutic targets for human cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 5. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000255561	 This gene encodes a protein which contains a ferredoxin-fold anticodon-binding domain which is contained in a subset of phenylalanyl tRNA synthetases. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000005889	 This gene on the X chromosome is structurally similar to a related gene on the Y chromosome. It encodes a member of the krueppel C2H2-type zinc-finger protein family. The full-length protein contains an acidic transcriptional activation domain (AD), a nuclear localization sequence (NLS) and a DNA binding domain (DBD) consisting of 13 C2H2-type zinc fingers. Studies in mouse embryonic and adult hematopoietic stem cells showed that this gene was required as a transcriptional regulator for self-renewal of both stem cell types, but it was dispensable for growth and differentiation of their progeny. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000123561	 There are three proteins including thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG), transthyretin and albumin responsible for carrying the thyroid hormones thyroxine (T4) and 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T3) in the bloodstream. This gene encodes the major thyroid hormone transport protein, TBG, in serum. It belongs to the serpin family in genomics, but the protein has no inhibitory function like many other members of the serpin family. Mutations in this gene result in TGB deficiency, which has been classified as partial deficiency, complete deficiency, and excess, based on the level of serum TBG. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found, but the full-length nature of these variants has not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000147394	 Zinc-finger proteins bind nucleic acids and play important roles in various cellular functions, including cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. This gene encodes a LIM-domain zinc finger protein. The LIM domain is composed of two contiguous zinc finger domains, separated by a two-amino acid residue hydrophobic linker. The LIM domain mediates protein:protein interactions. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000056998	 This gene encodes a member of the the glycogenin family. Glycogenin is a self-glucosylating protein involved in the initiation reactions of glycogen biosynthesis. A gene on chromosome 3 encodes the muscle glycogenin and this X-linked gene encodes the glycogenin mainly present in liver; both are involved in blood glucose homeostasis. This gene has a short version on chromosome Y, which is 3' truncated and can not make a functional protein. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000181191	 This gene encodes an enzyme that has E2-dependent E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity. This enzyme belongs to a class of ubiquitin ligases that include a RING finger motif, and it can interact with the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme UbcH5B. This gene is located in an area of chromosome X where several X-linked mental retardation disorders have been associated, and it has also been found as part of a contiguous gene deletion associated with craniofrontonasal syndrome, though a direct link to any disorder has yet to be demonstrated. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000143819	 Epoxide hydrolase is a critical biotransformation enzyme that converts epoxides from the degradation of aromatic compounds to trans-dihydrodiols which can be conjugated and excreted from the body. Epoxide hydrolase functions in both the activation and detoxification of epoxides. Mutations in this gene cause preeclampsia, epoxide hydrolase deficiency or increased epoxide hydrolase activity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000213689	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein with 3' exonuclease activity. The encoded protein may play a role in DNA repair and serve as a proofreading function for DNA polymerase. Mutations in this gene result in Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome, chilblain lupus, Cree encephalitis, and other diseases of the immune system. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]. 
ENSG00000243335	 This gene encodes a member of the potassium channel tetramerization domain-containing protein family. Family members are identified on a structural basis and contain an amino-terminal domain similar to the T1 domain present in the voltage-gated potassium channel. Mutations in this gene have been associated with progressive myoclonic epilepsy-3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000132294	 This gene encodes a membrane protein. Studies with orthologous gene in mouse show that it is differentially expressed in the auditory brainstem neurons of mice with hearing deficit, compared to mice with normal hearing ability, suggesting a role for this gene in hearing. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000137486	 Members of arrestin/beta-arrestin protein family are thought to participate in agonist-mediated desensitization of G-protein-coupled receptors and cause specific dampening of cellular responses to stimuli such as hormones, neurotransmitters, or sensory signals. Arrestin beta 1 is a cytosolic protein and acts as a cofactor in the beta-adrenergic receptor kinase (BARK) mediated desensitization of beta-adrenergic receptors. Besides the central nervous system, it is expressed at high levels in peripheral blood leukocytes, and thus the BARK/beta-arrestin system is believed to play a major role in regulating receptor-mediated immune functions. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms of arrestin beta 1 have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000125730	 Complement component C3 plays a central role in the activation of complement system. Its activation is required for both classical and alternative complement activation pathways. People with C3 deficiency are susceptible to bacterial infection. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000165102	 This gene encodes a lysosomal acetyltransferase, which is one of several enzymes involved in the lysosomal degradation of heparin sulfate. Mutations in this gene are associated with Sanfilippo syndrome C, one type of the lysosomal storage disease mucopolysaccaridosis III, which results from impaired degradation of heparan sulfate. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000109670	 This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The protein encoded by this gene was previously referred to as FBX30, and belongs to the Fbws class; in addition to an F-box, this protein contains 7 tandem WD40 repeats. This protein binds directly to cyclin E and probably targets cyclin E for ubiquitin-mediated degradation. Mutations in this gene are detected in ovarian and breast cancer cell lines, implicating the gene's potential role in the pathogenesis of human cancers. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000169398	 This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein tyrosine kinase which is found concentrated in the focal adhesions that form between cells growing in the presence of extracellular matrix constituents. The encoded protein is a member of the FAK subfamily of protein tyrosine kinases but lacks significant sequence similarity to kinases from other subfamilies. Activation of this gene may be an important early step in cell growth and intracellular signal transduction pathways triggered in response to certain neural peptides or to cell interactions with the extracellular matrix. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, but the full-length natures of only three of them have been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000119772	 CpG methylation is an epigenetic modification that is important for embryonic development, imprinting, and X-chromosome inactivation. Studies in mice have demonstrated that DNA methylation is required for mammalian development. This gene encodes a DNA methyltransferase that is thought to function in de novo methylation, rather than maintenance methylation. The protein localizes to the cytoplasm and nucleus and its expression is developmentally regulated. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130529	 The protein encoded by this gene is a calcium-activated nonselective ion channel that mediates transport of monovalent cations across membranes, thereby depolarizing the membrane. The activity of the encoded protein increases with increasing intracellular calcium concentration, but this channel does not transport calcium. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000082014	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SWI/SNF family of proteins, whose members display helicase and ATPase activities and which are thought to regulate transcription of certain genes by altering the chromatin structure around those genes. The encoded protein is part of the large ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complex SNF/SWI and has sequence similarity to the yeast Swp73 protein. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene, but the biological validity of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113013	 This gene encodes a member of the heat shock protein 70 gene family. The encoded protein is primarily localized to the mitochondria but is also found in the endoplasmic reticulum, plasma membrane and cytoplasmic vesicles. This protein is a heat-shock cognate protein. This protein plays a role in cell proliferation, stress response and maintenance of the mitochondria. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 2.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000130158	 This gene encodes a member of the dedicator of cytokinesis (DOCK) family of atypical guanine nucleotide exchange factors. Guanine nucleotide exchange factors interact with small GTPases and are components of intracellular signaling networks. The encoded protein is a group C DOCK protein and plays a role in actin cytoskeletal reorganization by activating the Rho GTPases Cdc42 and Rac1. Mutations in this gene are associated with Adams-Oliver syndrome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000124608	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family. Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases play critical roles in mRNA translation by charging tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. The encoded protein is a mitochondrial enzyme that specifically aminoacylates alanyl-tRNA. Mutations in this gene are a cause of combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 8. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000124225	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that contains a Smad interacting motif (SIM). Expression of this gene is induced by androgens and transforming growth factor beta, and the encoded protein suppresses the androgen receptor and transforming growth factor beta signaling pathways though interactions with Smad proteins. Overexpression of this gene may play a role in multiple types of cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000169515	 This gene encodes a coiled-coil domain-containing protein. The encoded protein functions as a cofactor required for p53-mediated apoptosis following DNA damage, and may also play a role in growth through interactions with the cytoskeletal adaptor protein obscurin-like 1. Mutations in this gene are a cause of 3M syndrome-3 (3M3). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000163820	 This gene encodes a protein that contains a RUN domain, FYVE-type zinc finger domain and Golgi dynamics (GOLD) domain. The encoded protein plays a role in microtubule plus end-directed transport of autophagic vesicles through interactions with the small GTPase Rab7, phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate (PI3P) and the autophagosome marker LC3. Mutations in this gene are a cause of autosomal recessive congenital cataract-2 (CATC2). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000118004	 This gene encodes a member of the collectin family of C-type lectins that possess collagen-like sequences and carbohydrate recognition domains. Collectins are secreted proteins that play important roles in the innate immune system by binding to carbohydrate antigens on microorganisms, facilitating their recognition and removal. The encoded protein binds to multiple sugars with a preference for fucose and mannose. Mutations in this gene are a cause of 3MC syndrome-2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000141979	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the calreticulin family, members of which are calcium-binding chaperones localized mainly in the endoplasmic reticulum. This protein is also localized to the endoplasmic reticulum lumen, however, its capacity for calcium-binding may be absent or much lower than other family members. This gene is specifically expressed in the testis, and may be required for sperm fertility. Mutation in this gene has been associated with familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000091136	 Laminins, a family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins, are the major noncollagenous constituent of basement membranes. They have been implicated in a wide variety of biological processes including cell adhesion, differentiation, migration, signaling, neurite outgrowth and metastasis. Laminins are composed of 3 non identical chains: laminin alpha, beta and gamma (formerly A, B1, and B2, respectively) and they form a cruciform structure consisting of 3 short arms, each formed by a different chain, and a long arm composed of all 3 chains. Each laminin chain is a multidomain protein encoded by a distinct gene. Several isoforms of each chain have been described. Different alpha, beta and gamma chain isomers combine to give rise to different heterotrimeric laminin isoforms which are designated by Arabic numerals in the order of their discovery, i.e. alpha1beta1gamma1 heterotrimer is laminin 1. The biological functions of the different chains and trimer molecules are largely unknown, but some of the chains have been shown to differ with respect to their tissue distribution, presumably reflecting diverse functions in vivo. This gene encodes the beta chain isoform laminin, beta 1. The beta 1 chain has 7 structurally distinct domains which it shares with other beta chain isomers. The C-terminal helical region containing domains I and II are separated by domain alpha, domains III and V contain several EGF-like repeats, and domains IV and VI have a globular conformation. Laminin, beta 1 is expressed in most tissues that produce basement membranes, and is one of the 3 chains constituting laminin 1, the first laminin isolated from Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm (EHS) tumor. A sequence in the beta 1 chain that is involved in cell attachment, chemotaxis, and binding to the laminin receptor was identified and shown to have the capacity to inhibit metastasis. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000115919	 Kynureninase is a pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (pyridoxal-P) dependent enzyme that catalyzes the cleavage of L-kynurenine and L-3-hydroxykynurenine into anthranilic and 3-hydroxyanthranilic acids, respectively. Kynureninase is involved in the biosynthesis of NAD cofactors from tryptophan through the kynurenine pathway. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000127946	 The product of this gene is a membrane-associated protein that colocalizes with huntingtin. This protein has similarities to cytoskeleton proteins and its interaction with huntingtin is thought to play a functional role in the cell filament network. Loss of normal huntingtin-HIP1 interaction in Huntington disease may contribute to a defect in membrane-cytoskeletal integrity in the brain. This gene could help in the understanding of the normal function of huntingtin and also the pathogenesis of Huntington disease. It also has been implicated in the pathogenesis of hematopoietic malignancies. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000048052	 Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alters chromosome structure and affects transcription factor access to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene has sequence homology to members of the histone deacetylase family. This gene is orthologous to the Xenopus and mouse MITR genes. The MITR protein lacks the histone deacetylase catalytic domain. It represses MEF2 activity through recruitment of multicomponent corepressor complexes that include CtBP and HDACs. This encoded protein may play a role in hematopoiesis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcripts have been described for this gene but the full-length nature of some of them has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170485	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH)-PAS family of transcription factors. A similar mouse protein may play a regulatory role in the acquisition of specific types of memory. It also may function as a part of a molecular clock operative in the mammalian forebrain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204843	 This gene encodes the largest subunit of dynactin, a macromolecular complex consisting of 10 subunits ranging in size from 22 to 150 kD. Dynactin binds to both microtubules and cytoplasmic dynein. Dynactin is involved in a diverse array of cellular functions, including ER-to-Golgi transport, the centripetal movement of lysosomes and endosomes, spindle formation, chromosome movement, nuclear positioning, and axonogenesis. This subunit interacts with dynein intermediate chain by its domains directly binding to dynein and binds to microtubules via a highly conserved glycine-rich cytoskeleton-associated protein (CAP-Gly) domain in its N-terminus. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Mutations in this gene cause distal hereditary motor neuronopathy type VIIB (HMN7B) which is also known as distal spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (dSBMA). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000065427	 Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. Lysyl-tRNA synthetase is a homodimer localized to the cytoplasm which belongs to the class II family of tRNA synthetases. It has been shown to be a target of autoantibodies in the human autoimmune diseases, polymyositis or dermatomyositis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000084734	 This gene encodes a protein belonging to the GCKR subfamily of the SIS (Sugar ISomerase) family of proteins. The gene product is a regulatory protein that inhibits glucokinase in liver and pancreatic islet cells by binding non-covalently to form an inactive complex with the enzyme. This gene is considered a susceptibility gene candidate for a form of maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159263	 SIM1 and SIM2 genes are Drosophila single-minded (sim) gene homologs. The Drosophila sim gene encodes a transcription factor that is a master regulator of fruit fly neurogenesis. SIM2 maps within the so-called Down syndrome chromosomal region.  Based on the mapping position, its potential function as transcriptional repressor and similarity to Drosophila sim, it is proposed that SIM2 may contribute to some specific Down syndrome phenotypes [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000213341	 This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. The encoded protein, a component of a cytokine-activated protein complex that is an inhibitor of the essential transcription factor NF-kappa-B complex, phosphorylates sites that trigger the degradation of the inhibitor via the ubiquination pathway, thereby activating the transcription factor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101916	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans and share structural and functional similarities. They recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that are expressed on infectious agents, and mediate the production of cytokines necessary for the development of effective immunity. The various TLRs exhibit different patterns of expression. This gene is predominantly expressed in lung and peripheral blood leukocytes, and lies in close proximity to another family member, TLR7, on chromosome X. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000075945	 The small G protein GDP dissociation stimulator (smg GDS) is a regulator protein having two activities on a group of small G proteins including the Rho and Rap1 family members and Ki-Ras; one is to stimulate their GDP/GTP exchange reactions, and the other is to inhibit their interactions with membranes. The protein encoded by this gene contains 9 'Armadillo' repeats and interacts with the smg GDS protein through these repeats. This protein, which is highly concentrated around the endoplasmic reticulum, is phosphorylated by v-src, and this phosphorylation reduces the affinity of the protein for smg GDS. It is thought that this protein serves as a linker between human chromosome-associated polypeptide (HCAP) and KIF3A/B, a kinesin superfamily protein in the nucleus, and that it plays a role in the interaction of chromosomes with an ATPase motor protein. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000120899	 This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein tyrosine kinase which is involved in calcium-induced regulation of ion channels and activation of the map kinase signaling pathway. The encoded protein may represent an important signaling intermediate between neuropeptide-activated receptors or neurotransmitters that increase calcium flux and the downstream signals that regulate neuronal activity. The encoded protein undergoes rapid tyrosine phosphorylation and activation in response to increases in the intracellular calcium concentration, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor activation, membrane depolarization, or protein kinase C activation. This protein has been shown to bind CRK-associated substrate, nephrocystin, GTPase regulator associated with FAK, and the SH2 domain of GRB2. The encoded protein is a member of the FAK subfamily of protein tyrosine kinases but lacks significant sequence similarity to kinases from other subfamilies. Four transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110074	 This gene encodes a protein that contains a FAD-dependent oxidoreductase domain. The encoded protein is localized to the mitochondria and may function as a chaperone protein required for the function of mitochondrial complex I. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex I deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000111676	 Dentatorubral pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA) is a rare neurodegenerative disorder characterized by cerebellar ataxia, myoclonic epilepsy, choreoathetosis, and dementia. The disorder is related to the expansion from 7-23 copies to 49-75 copies of a trinucleotide repeat (CAG/CAA) within this gene. The encoded protein includes a serine repeat and a region of alternating acidic and basic amino acids, as well as the variable glutamine repeat. Alternative splicing results in two transcripts variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000181031	 The protein encoded by this gene plays a direct regulatory role in calcium-ion-dependent exocytosis in both endocrine and exocrine cells and plays a key role in insulin secretion by pancreatic cells. This gene is likely a tumor suppressor. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000100292	 Heme oxygenase, an essential enzyme in heme catabolism, cleaves heme to form biliverdin, which is subsequently converted to bilirubin by biliverdin reductase, and carbon monoxide, a putative neurotransmitter. Heme oxygenase activity is induced by its substrate heme and by various nonheme substances. Heme oxygenase occurs as 2 isozymes, an inducible heme oxygenase-1 and a constitutive heme oxygenase-2. HMOX1 and HMOX2 belong to the heme oxygenase family. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136827	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the AAA family of adenosine triphosphatases (ATPases), is related to the Clp protease/heat shock family and is expressed prominently in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Mutations in this gene result in the autosomal dominant disorder, torsion dystonia 1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140983	 This gene encodes a member of the Rho family of GTPases. The encoded protein is localized to the outer mitochondrial membrane and plays a role in mitochondrial trafficking and fusion-fission dynamics. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000101082	 This gene encodes a member of the SLAP family of adapter proteins. The encoded protein may play an important receptor-proximal role in downregulating T and B cell-mediated responses and inhibits antigen receptor-induced calcium mobilization. This protein interacts with Cas-Br-M (murine) ecotropic retroviral transforming sequence c. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112851	 This gene is a member of the leucine-rich repeat and PDZ domain (LAP) family. The encoded protein contains 17 leucine-rich repeats and one PDZ domain. It binds to the unphosphorylated form of the ERBB2 protein and regulates ERBB2 function and localization. It has also been shown to affect the Ras signaling pathway by disrupting Ras-Raf interaction. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000251322	 This gene is a member of the Shank gene family. Shank proteins are multidomain scaffold proteins of the postsynaptic density that connect neurotransmitter receptors, ion channels, and other membrane proteins to the actin cytoskeleton and G-protein-coupled signaling pathways. Shank proteins also play a role in synapse formation and dendritic spine maturation. Mutations in this gene are a cause of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), which is characterized by impairments in social interaction and communication, and restricted behavioral patterns and interests. Mutations in this gene also cause schizophrenia type 15, and are a major causative factor in the neurological symptoms of 22q13.3 deletion syndrome, which is also known as Phelan-McDermid syndrome. Additional isoforms have been described for this gene but they have not yet been experimentally verified. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000135437	 This gene encodes an enzyme belonging to the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) family. This retinol dehydrogenase functions to catalyze the final step in the biosynthesis of 11-cis retinaldehyde, which is the universal chromophore of visual pigments. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal recessive fundus albipunctatus, a rare form of night blindness that is characterized by a delay in the regeneration of cone and rod photopigments. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the neighboring upstream BLOC1S1 (biogenesis of lysosomal organelles complex-1, subunit 1) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000099797	 This gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that resides in the endoplasmic reticulum, and belongs to the steroid 5-alpha reductase family. The elongation of microsomal long and very long chain fatty acid consists of 4 sequential reactions. This protein catalyzes the final step, reducing trans-2,3-enoyl-CoA to saturated acyl-CoA. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000163737	 This gene encodes a member of the CXC chemokine family. This chemokine is released from the alpha granules of activated platelets in the form of a homotetramer which has high affinity for heparin and is involved in platelet aggregation. This protein is chemotactic for numerous other cell type and also functions as an inhibitor of hematopoiesis, angiogenesis and T-cell function. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000169860	 The product of this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors. This family has several receptor subtypes with different pharmacological selectivity, which overlaps in some cases, for various adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This receptor functions as a receptor for extracellular ATP and ADP. In platelets binding to ADP leads to mobilization of intracellular calcium ions via activation of phospholipase C, a change in platelet shape, and probably to platelet aggregation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000127533	 Coagulation factor II (thrombin) receptor-like 3 (F2RL3) is a member of the large family of 7-transmembrane-region receptors that couple to guanosine-nucleotide-binding proteins. F2RL3 is also a member of the protease-activated receptor family. F2RL3 is activated by proteolytic cleavage of its extracellular amino terminus. The new amino terminus functions as a tethered ligand and activates the receptor. F2RL3 is activated by thrombin and trypsin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000080618	 Carboxypeptidases are enzymes that hydrolyze C-terminal peptide bonds. The carboxypeptidase family includes metallo-, serine, and cysteine carboxypeptidases. According to their substrate specificity, these enzymes are referred to as carboxypeptidase A (cleaving aliphatic residues) or carboxypeptidase B (cleaving basic amino residues). The protein encoded by this gene is activated by trypsin and acts on carboxypeptidase B substrates. After thrombin activation, the mature protein downregulates fibrinolysis. Polymorphisms have been described for this gene and its promoter region. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000206013	 This gene encodes a membrane protein thought to play a role in bone mineralization. This gene is located on chromosome 11 in a cluster of related genes which are induced by interferon, however, this gene has not been shown to be interferon inducible. A similar gene, located in a gene cluster on mouse chromosome 7, is a member of the interferon-inducible fragilis gene family. The mouse gene encodes a transmembrane protein described as participating in germ cell competence. A mutation in the 5' UTR of this gene has been associated with osteogenesis imperfecta type V (PMID: 22863190, 22863195). [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000182022	 Chondroitin sulfate (CS) is a glycosaminoglycan which is an important structural component of the extracellular matrix and which links to proteins to form proteoglycans. Chondroitin sulfate E (CS-E) is an isomer of chondroitin sulfate in which the C-4 and C-6 hydroxyl groups are sulfated. This gene encodes a type II transmembrane glycoprotein that acts as a sulfotransferase to transfer sulfate to the C-6 hydroxal group of chondroitin sulfate. This gene has also been identified as being co-expressed with RAG1 in B-cells and as potentially acting as a B-cell surface signaling receptor. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000101000	 The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for activated protein C, a serine protease activated by and involved in the blood coagulation pathway. The encoded protein is an N-glycosylated type I membrane protein that enhances the activation of protein C. Mutations in this gene have been associated with venous thromboembolism and myocardial infarction, as well as with late fetal loss during pregnancy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000011422	 This gene encodes the receptor for urokinase plasminogen activator and, given its role in localizing and promoting plasmin formation, likely influences many normal and pathological processes related to cell-surface plasminogen activation and localized degradation of the extracellular matrix. It binds both the proprotein and mature forms of urokinase plasminogen activator and permits the activation of the receptor-bound pro-enzyme by plasmin. The protein lacks transmembrane or cytoplasmic domains and may be anchored to the plasma membrane by a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI) moiety following cleavage of the nascent polypeptide near its carboxy-terminus. However, a soluble protein is also produced in some cell types. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. The proprotein experiences several post-translational cleavage reactions that have not yet been fully defined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196730	 Death-associated protein kinase 1 is a positive mediator of gamma-interferon induced programmed cell death.  DAPK1 encodes a structurally unique 160-kD calmodulin dependent serine-threonine kinase that carries 8 ankyrin repeats and 2 putative P-loop consensus sites. It is a tumor suppressor candidate. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112293	 Many proteins are tethered to the extracellular face of eukaryotic plasma membranes by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. The GPI-anchor is a glycolipid found on many blood cells. The protein encoded by this gene is a GPI degrading enzyme. Glycosylphosphatidylinositol specific phospholipase D1 hydrolyzes the inositol phosphate linkage in proteins anchored by phosphatidylinositol glycans, thereby releasing the attached protein from the plasma membrane. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169429	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the CXC chemokine family. This chemokine is one of the major mediators of the inflammatory response. This chemokine is secreted by several cell types. It functions as a chemoattractant, and is also a potent angiogenic factor. This gene is believed to play a role in the pathogenesis of bronchiolitis, a common respiratory tract disease caused by viral infection. This gene and other ten members of the CXC chemokine gene family form a chemokine gene cluster in a region mapped to chromosome 4q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000233276	 This gene encodes a member of the glutathione peroxidase family. Glutathione peroxidase functions in the detoxification of hydrogen peroxide, and is one of the most important antioxidant enzymes in humans. This protein is one of only a few proteins known in higher vertebrates to contain selenocysteine, which occurs at the active site of glutathione peroxidase and is coded by UGA, that normally functions as a translation termination codon. In addition, this protein is characterized in a polyalanine sequence polymorphism in the N-terminal region, which includes three alleles with five, six or seven alanine (ALA) repeats in this sequence. The allele with five ALA repeats is significantly associated with breast cancer risk. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204305	 The advanced glycosylation end product (AGE) receptor encoded by this gene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell surface receptors. It is a multiligand receptor, and besides AGE, interacts with other molecules implicated in homeostasis, development, and inflammation, and certain diseases, such as diabetes and Alzheimer's disease. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms, as well as non-protein-coding variants, have been described for this gene (PMID:18089847). [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000078549	 This gene encodes type I adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide receptor, which is a membrane-associated protein and shares significant homology with members of the glucagon/secretin receptor family. This receptor mediates diverse biological actions of adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide 1 and is positively coupled to adenylate cyclase. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000185046	 This gene encodes a multi-domain protein that is predominantly expressed in brain and testis. This protein interacts with amyloid beta protein precursor (AbetaPP) and may have a role in normal brain development, and in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Expression of this gene has been shown to be elevated in patients with pre-B cell acute lymphocytic leukemia associated with t(1;19) translocation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms (some with different subcellular localization, PMID:15004329) have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000057468	 This gene encodes a member of the DNA mismatch repair mutS family. This member is a meiosis-specific protein that is not involved in DNA mismatch correction, but is required for reciprocal recombination and proper segregation of homologous chromosomes at meiosis I. This protein and MSH5 form a heterodimer which binds uniquely to a Holliday Junction and its developmental progenitor, thus provoking ADP-ATP exchange, and stabilizing the interaction between parental chromosomes during meiosis double-stranded break repair. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000103423	 This gene encodes a member of the DNAJ/Hsp40 protein family. DNAJ/Hsp40 proteins stimulate the ATPase activity of Hsp70 chaperones and play critical roles in protein folding, degradation, and multimeric complex assembly. The encoded protein is localized to mitochondria and mediates several cellular processes including proliferation, survival and apoptotic signal transduction. The encoded protein also plays a critical role in tumor suppression through interactions with oncogenic proteins including ErbB2 and the p53 tumor suppressor protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000063176	 This gene encodes one of two sphingosine kinase isozymes that catalyze the phosphorylation of sphingosine into sphingosine 1-phosphate. Sphingosine 1-phosphate mediates many cellular processes including migration, proliferation and apoptosis, and also plays a role in several types of cancer by promoting angiogenesis and tumorigenesis. The encoded protein may play a role in breast cancer proliferation and chemoresistance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000078043	 This gene encodes a member of the protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) family. PIAS proteins function as SUMO E3 ligases and play important roles in many cellular processes by mediating the sumoylation of target proteins. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. Isoforms of the encoded protein enhance the sumoylation of specific target proteins including the p53 tumor suppressor protein, c-Jun, and the androgen receptor. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 4. The symbol MIZ1 has also been associated with ZBTB17 which is a different gene located on chromosome 1. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000107897	 This gene encodes a member of the acyl-Coenzyme A binding protein family, known to function in the transport and distribution of long chain acyl-Coenzyme A in cells. This gene may play a role in the differentiation of megakaryocytes and formation of platelets. A mutation in this gene has been associated with autosomal dominant thrombocytopenia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]. 
ENSG00000136720	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the heparan sulfate biosynthetic enzyme family. Heparan sulfate biosynthetic enzymes are key components in generating a myriad of distinct heparan sulfate fine structures that carry out multiple biological activities. This enzyme is a type II integral membrane protein and is responsible for 6-O-sulfation of heparan sulfate. This enzyme does not share significant sequence similarity with other known sulfotransferases. A pseudogene located on chromosome 1 has been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000122778	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the UPF0606 family. This gene has been found to be fused to the BRAF oncogene in many cases of pilocytic astrocytoma. The fusion results from 2Mb tandem duplications at 7q34. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]. 
ENSG00000151779	 This gene encodes a protein with two leucine zipper domains, a ribosomal protein S14 signature domain and a Sec39 like domain. The protein is thought to be involved in Golgi-to-ER transport. Mutations in this gene are associated with short stature, optic nerve atrophy, and Pelger-Huet anomaly. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]. 
ENSG00000090339	 This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein which is typically expressed on endothelial cells and cells of the immune system. It binds to integrins of type CD11a / CD18, or CD11b / CD18 and is also exploited by Rhinovirus as a receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198930	 This gene encodes a member of a family of tumor antigens. The protein is expressed in chondrosarcomas, but may also be expressed in normal tissues such as testis. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000148795	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. It has both 17alpha-hydroxylase and 17,20-lyase activities and is a key enzyme in the steroidogenic pathway that produces progestins, mineralocorticoids, glucocorticoids, androgens, and estrogens. Mutations in this gene are associated with isolated steroid-17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency, 17-alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency, pseudohermaphroditism, and adrenal hyperplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000205560	 The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the carnitine/choline acetyltransferase family, is the rate-controlling enzyme of the long-chain fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway in muscle mitochondria. This enzyme is required for the net transport of long-chain fatty acyl-CoAs from the cytoplasm into the mitochondria. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, and read-through transcripts are expressed from the upstream locus that include exons from this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]. 
ENSG00000165264	 The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the multisubunit NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I). Mammalian complex I is composed of 45 different subunits. It locates at the mitochondrial inner membrane. This protein has NADH dehydrogenase activity and oxidoreductase activity. It transfers electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme is believed to be ubiquinone. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and three transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000181072	 The muscarinic cholinergic receptors belong to a larger family of G protein-coupled receptors. The functional diversity of these receptors is defined by the binding of acetylcholine to these receptors and includes cellular responses such as adenylate cyclase inhibition, phosphoinositide degeneration, and potassium channel mediation. Muscarinic receptors influence many effects of acetylcholine in the central and peripheral nervous system. The muscarinic cholinergic receptor 2 is involved in mediation of bradycardia and a decrease in cardiac contractility. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000038002	 Aspartylglucosaminidase is involved in the catabolism of N-linked oligosaccharides of glycoproteins. It cleaves asparagine from N-acetylglucosamines as one of the final steps in the lysosomal breakdown of glycoproteins. The lysosomal storage disease aspartylglycosaminuria is caused by a deficiency in the AGA enzyme. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000196367	 This gene encodes a large multidomain protein of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase-related kinases (PIKK) family. The encoded protein is a common component of many histone acetyltransferase (HAT) complexes and plays a role in transcription and DNA repair by recruiting HAT complexes to chromatin. Deregulation of this gene may play a role in several types of cancer including glioblastoma multiforme. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000132692	 This gene encodes a member of the lectican family of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans that is specifically expressed in the central nervous system. This protein is developmentally regulated and may function in the formation of the brain extracellular matrix. This protein is highly expressed in gliomas and may promote the growth and cell motility of brain tumor cells. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000148120	 This gene encodes a member of the M1 zinc aminopeptidase family. The encoded protein is a zinc-dependent metallopeptidase that catalyzes the removal of an amino acid from the amino terminus of a protein or peptide. This protein may play a role in the generation of angiotensin IV. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000170632	 This gene encodes a protein that contains an armadillo repeat and transmembrane domain. The encoded protein decreases the transcriptional activity of the tumor suppressor protein p53 through direct interaction with the DNA-binding domain of p53, and may play a role in cell growth and survival. Upregulation of this gene may play a role in hepatocellular carcinoma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 3. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000159082	 This gene encodes a phosphoinositide phosphatase that regulates levels of membrane phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate. As such, expression of this enzyme may affect synaptic transmission and membrane trafficking. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000184903	 This gene encodes a protein involved in processing the signal peptide sequences used to direct mitochondrial proteins to the mitochondria. The encoded protein resides in the mitochondria and is one of the necessary proteins for the catalytic activity of the mitochondrial inner membrane peptidase (IMP) complex. Two variants that encode the same protein have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000186976	 This gene encodes a protein which directly binds the oncogene DJ-1 and androgen receptor to form a ternary complex in cells. This binding protein recruits histone-deacetylase complexes in order to repress transcription activity of androgen receptor. This protein may also play a role in spermatogenesis and fertilization. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000097033	 This gene encodes a SRC homology 3 domain-containing protein. The encoded protein interacts with the proapoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family, Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax) and may be involved in regulating apoptotic signaling pathways. This protein may also be involved in maintaining mitochondrial morphology. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000143257	 This gene encodes a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily, and is a key regulator of xenobiotic and endobiotic metabolism. The protein binds to DNA as a monomer or a heterodimer with the retinoid X receptor and regulates the transcription of target genes involved in drug metabolism and bilirubin clearance, such as cytochrome P450 family members. Unlike most nuclear receptors, this transcriptional regulator is constitutively active in the absence of ligand but is regulated by both agonists and inverse agonists. Ligand binding results in translocation of this protein to the nucleus, where it activates or represses target gene transcription. These ligands include bilirubin, a variety of foreign compounds, steroid hormones, and prescription drugs. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000012174	 This gene encodes a intramembrane zinc metalloprotease, which is essential in development. This protease functions in the signal protein activation involved in sterol control of transcription and the ER stress response. Mutations in this gene have been associated with ichthyosis follicularis with atrichia and photophobia (IFAP syndrome); IFAP syndrome has been quantitatively linked to a reduction in cholesterol homeostasis and ER stress response.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]. 
ENSG00000136754	 This gene encodes a member of the Abelson-interactor family of adaptor proteins. These proteins facilitate signal transduction as components of several multiprotein complexes, and regulate actin polymerization and cytoskeletal remodeling through interactions with Abelson tyrosine kinases. The encoded protein plays a role in macropinocytosis as a component of the WAVE2 complex, and also forms a complex with EPS8 and SOS1 that mediates signal transduction from Ras to Rac. This gene may play a role in the progression of several malignancies including melanoma, colon cancer and breast cancer, and a t(10;11) chromosomal translocation involving this gene and the MLL gene has been associated with acute myeloid leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 14. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000230797	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor that includes several Kruppel-like zinc fingers in its C-terminal region. It possesses both activation and repression domains, and it can therefore have both positive and negative effects on the transcription of target genes. This gene has an intronless coding region, and it appears to have arisen by retrotransposition of the related YY1 transcription factor gene, which is located on chromosome 14. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000064490	 Major histocompatibility (MHC) class II molecules are transmembrane proteins that have a central role in development and control of the immune system. The protein encoded by this gene, along with regulatory factor X-associated protein and regulatory factor-5, forms a complex that binds to the X box motif of certain MHC class II gene promoters and activates their transcription. Once bound to the promoter, this complex associates with the non-DNA-binding factor MHC class II transactivator, which controls the cell type specificity and inducibility of MHC class II gene expression. This protein contains ankyrin repeats involved in protein-protein interactions. Mutations in this gene have been linked to bare lymphocyte syndrome type II, complementation group B. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene, with only one isoform showing activation activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197408	 This gene, CYP2B6, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by phenobarbital. The enzyme is known to metabolize some xenobiotics, such as the anti-cancer drugs cyclophosphamide and ifosphamide. Transcript variants for this gene have been described; however, it has not been resolved whether these transcripts are in fact produced by this gene or by a closely related pseudogene, CYP2B7. Both the gene and the pseudogene are located in the middle of a CYP2A pseudogene found in a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130055	 This gene encodes a member of the glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase enzyme family. The encoded protein hydrolyzes glycerophosphoinositol to produce inositol 1-phosphate and glycerol. This protein may have a role in osteoblast differentiation and growth. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000169933	 This gene encodes a multi-domain (WW, PDZ, FERM) containing protein. Through its interaction with other proteins (such as PSD-95), it functions as a positive regulator of dendritic spine morphogenesis and density, and is required for the maintenance of excitatory synaptic transmission. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000184481	 This gene encodes a member of the O class of winged helix/forkhead transcription factor family. Proteins encoded by this class are regulated by factors involved in growth and differentiation indicating they play a role in these processes. A translocation involving this gene on chromosome X and the homolog of the Drosophila trithorax gene, encoding a DNA binding protein, located on chromosome 11 is associated with leukemia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000167723	 This gene product belongs to a family of nonselective cation channels that function in a variety of processes, including temperature sensation and vasoregulation. The thermosensitive members of this family are expressed in subsets of sensory neurons that terminate in the skin, and are activated at distinct physiological temperatures. This channel is activated at temperatures between 22 and 40 degrees C. This gene lies in close proximity to another family member gene on chromosome 17, and the two encoded proteins are thought to associate with each other to form heteromeric channels. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000100412	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the aconitase/IPM isomerase family. It is an enzyme that catalyzes the interconversion of citrate to isocitrate via cis-aconitate in the second step of the TCA cycle. This protein is encoded in the nucleus and functions in the mitochondrion. It was found to be one of the mitochondrial matrix proteins that are preferentially degraded by the serine protease 15(PRSS15), also known as Lon protease, after oxidative modification. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145494	 This gene encodes a subunit of the NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I), which is the first enzyme complex in the electron transport chain of mitochondria. This complex functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The subunit encoded by this gene is one of seven subunits in the iron-sulfur protein fraction. Mutations in this gene cause mitochondrial complex I deficiency, a disease that causes a wide variety of clinical disorders, including neonatal disease and adult-onset neurodegenerative disorders.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000182511	 This gene encodes the human cellular counterpart of a feline sarcoma retrovirus protein with transforming capabilities. The gene product has tyrosine-specific protein kinase activity and that activity is required for maintenance of cellular transformation. Its chromosomal location has linked it to a specific translocation event identified in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia but it is also involved in normal hematopoiesis as well as growth factor and cytokine receptor signaling. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000124493	 L-glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and activates both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is involved in most aspects of normal brain function and can be perturbed in many neuropathologic conditions. The metabotropic glutamate receptors are a family of G protein-coupled receptors, that have been divided into 3 groups on the basis of sequence homology, putative signal transduction mechanisms, and pharmacologic properties. Group I includes GRM1 and GRM5 and these receptors have been shown to activate phospholipase C. Group II includes GRM2 and GRM3 while Group III includes GRM4, GRM6, GRM7 and GRM8. Group II and III receptors are linked to the inhibition of the cyclic AMP cascade but differ in their agonist selectivities. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000125740	 The Fos gene family consists of 4 members: FOS, FOSB, FOSL1, and FOSL2. These genes encode leucine zipper proteins that can dimerize with proteins of the JUN family, thereby forming the transcription factor complex AP-1. As such, the FOS proteins have been implicated as regulators of cell proliferation, differentiation, and transformation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000124440	 The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha-3 subunit of one of several alpha/beta-subunit heterodimeric transcription factors that regulate many adaptive responses to low oxygen tension (hypoxia). The alpha-3 subunit lacks the transactivation domain found in factors containing either the alpha-1 or alpha-2 subunits. It is thought that factors containing the alpha-3 subunit are negative regulators of hypoxia-inducible gene expression. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000171720	 Histones play a critical role in transcriptional regulation, cell cycle progression, and developmental events. Histone acetylation/deacetylation alters chromosome structure and affects transcription factor access to DNA. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the histone deacetylase/acuc/apha family. It has histone deacetylase activity and represses transcription when tethered to a promoter. It may participate in the regulation of transcription through its binding with the zinc-finger transcription factor YY1. This protein can also down-regulate p53 function and thus modulate cell growth and apoptosis. This gene is regarded as a potential tumor suppressor gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123094	 This gene encodes a member of the Ras-assocation domain family (RASSF) of tumor suppressor proteins. This gene is essential for maintaining adherens junction function in epithelial cells and has a role in epithelial cell migration. It is a lung tumor suppressor gene candidate. A chromosomal translocation t(12;22)(p11.2;q13.3) leading to the fusion of this gene and the FBLN1 gene is found in a complex type of synpolydactyly. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000069696	 This gene encodes the D4 subtype of the dopamine receptor. The D4 subtype is a G-protein coupled receptor which inhibits adenylyl cyclase. It is a target for drugs which treat schizophrenia and Parkinson disease. Mutations in this gene have been associated with various behavioral phenotypes, including autonomic nervous system dysfunction, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, and the personality trait of novelty seeking. This gene contains a polymorphic number (2-10 copies) of tandem 48 nt repeats; the sequence shown contains four repeats. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000144893	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of the Mediator complex, which is involved in transcriptional coactivation of nearly all RNA polymerase II-dependent genes. The Mediator complex links gene-specific transcriptional activators with the basal transcription machinery. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000111860	 The protein encoded by this gene was identified as a breast cancer antigen. Nothing more is known of its function at this time. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000100888	 This gene encodes a DNA helicase that functions as a transcription repressor by remodeling chromatin structure. It binds beta-catenin and negatively regulates Wnt signaling pathway, which plays a pivotal role in vertebrate early development and morphogenesis. Mice lacking this gene exhibit early embryonic death. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000112541	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase family. It plays a role in signal transduction by regulating the intracellular concentration of cyclic nucleotides. This protein can hydrolyze both cAMP and cGMP to the corresponding nucleoside 5' monophosphate, but has higher affinity for cAMP, and is more efficient with cAMP as substrate. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000039650	 This locus represents a gene involved in DNA repair. In response to ionizing radiation or oxidative damage, the protein encoded by this locus catalyzes 5' phosphorylation and 3' dephosphorylation of nucleic acids. Mutations at this locus have been associated with microcephaly, seizures, and developmental delay.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000049618	 This locus encodes an AT-rich DNA interacting domain-containing protein. The encoded protein is a component of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex and may play a role in cell-cycle activation. The protein encoded by this locus is similar to AT-rich interactive domain-containing protein 1A. These two proteins function as alternative, mutually exclusive ARID-subunits of the SWI/SNF complex. The associated complexes play opposing roles. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]. 
ENSG00000126749	 This gene encodes an essential, conserved eukaryotic protein involved in ribosome biogenesis. In yeast, the related protein is a component of the small subunit processome and is essential for biogenesis of the ribosomal 40S subunit. A mutation in this gene has been associated with Bowen-Conradi syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000148219	 This gene encodes a protein that is expressed in the brain and may function in neuronal migration, based on functional studies of the related astrotactin 1 gene in human and mouse. A deletion at this locus has been associated with schizophrenia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different proteins have been found for this locus. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000158467	 The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homotetramer and may be involved in the conversion of S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine to L-homocysteine and adenosine. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000168906	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the production of S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) from methionine and ATP. AdoMet is the key methyl donor in cellular processes. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000082258	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin and its kinase partner CDK9 were found to be subunits of the transcription elongation factor p-TEFb. The p-TEFb complex containing this cyclin was reported to interact with, and act as a negative regulator of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) Tat protein. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 1. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000166783	 This gene encodes a putative peroxisomal protein that appears to be conserved across Euteleostomi. In humans, it may be autoantigenic. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000107736	 This gene is a member of the cadherin superfamily, whose genes encode calcium dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoproteins. The encoded protein is thought to be involved in stereocilia organization and hair bundle formation. The gene is located in a region containing the human deafness loci DFNB12 and USH1D. Usher syndrome 1D and nonsyndromic autosomal recessive deafness DFNB12 are caused by allelic mutations of this cadherin-like gene. Alternative splice variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000234906	 This gene encodes a lipid-binding protein belonging to the apolipoprotein gene family. The protein is secreted in plasma where it is a component of very low density lipoprotein. This protein activates the enzyme lipoprotein lipase, which hydrolyzes triglycerides and thus provides free fatty acids for cells. Mutations in this gene cause hyperlipoproteinemia type IB, characterized by hypertriglyceridemia, xanthomas, and increased risk of pancreatitis and early atherosclerosis. This gene is present in a cluster with other related apolipoprotein genes on chromosome 19. Naturally occurring read-through transcription exists between this gene and the neighboring upstream apolipoprotein C-IV (APOC4) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000184047	 This gene encodes an inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP)-binding protein. The encoded mitochondrial protein enters the cytosol when cells undergo apoptosis, and it moderates the caspase inhibition of IAPs. Multiple polyadenylation sites have been found for this gene. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene, with two of them encoding different isoforms and the other two probably not encoding a protein. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000166444	 This gene was identified by its ability to suppress the tumorigenicity of Hela cells in nude mice. The protein encoded by this gene contains a C-terminal region that shares similarity with the Rab 3 family of small GTP binding proteins. This protein preferentially binds to the SH3 domain of c-Abl kinase, and acts as a regulator of MAPK1/ERK2 kinase, which may contribute to its ability to reduce the tumorigenic phenotype in cells. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms are identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000160201	 This gene belongs to the splicing factor SR family of genes. U2 auxiliary factor, comprising a large and a small subunit, is a non-snRNP protein required for the binding of U2 snRNP to the pre-mRNA branch site. This gene encodes the small subunit which plays a critical role in both constitutive and enhancer-dependent RNA splicing by directly mediating interactions between the large subunit and proteins bound to the enhancers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000072062	 cAMP is a signaling molecule important for a variety of cellular functions. cAMP exerts its effects by activating the cAMP-dependent protein kinase, which transduces the signal through phosphorylation of different target proteins. The inactive kinase holoenzyme is a tetramer composed of two regulatory and two catalytic subunits. cAMP causes the dissociation of the inactive holoenzyme into a dimer of regulatory subunits bound to four cAMP and two free monomeric catalytic subunits. Four different regulatory subunits and three catalytic subunits have been identified in humans. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family and is a catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100614	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PP2C family of Ser/Thr protein phosphatases. PP2C family members are known to be negative regulators of cell stress response pathways. This phosphatase dephosphorylates, and negatively regulates the activities of, MAP kinases and MAP kinase kinases. It has been shown to inhibit the activation of p38 and JNK kinase cascades induced by environmental stresses. This phosphatase can also dephosphorylate cyclin-dependent kinases, and thus may be involved in cell cycle control. Overexpression of this phosphatase is reported to activate the expression of the tumor suppressor gene TP53/p53, which leads to G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000213380	 This gene encodes a protein that is a component of the conserved oligomeric Golgi (COG) complex, a multiprotein complex that plays a structural role in the Golgi apparatus, and is involved in intracellular membrane trafficking and glycoprotein modification. Mutations in this gene cause congenital disorder of glycosylation, type IIh, a disease that is characterized by under-glycosylated serum proteins, and whose symptoms include severe psychomotor retardation, failure to thrive, seizures, and dairy and wheat product intolerance. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169083	 The androgen receptor gene is more than 90 kb long and codes for a protein that has 3 major functional domains: the N-terminal domain, DNA-binding domain, and androgen-binding domain. The protein functions as a steroid-hormone activated transcription factor. Upon binding the hormone ligand, the receptor dissociates from accessory proteins, translocates into the nucleus, dimerizes, and then stimulates transcription of androgen responsive genes. This gene contains 2 polymorphic trinucleotide repeat segments that encode polyglutamine and polyglycine tracts in the N-terminal transactivation domain of its protein. Expansion of the polyglutamine tract causes spinal bulbar muscular atrophy (Kennedy disease). Mutations in this gene are also associated with complete androgen insensitivity (CAIS). Two alternatively spliced variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196712	 This gene product appears to function as a negative regulator of the ras signal transduction pathway. Mutations in this gene have been linked to neurofibromatosis type 1, juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia and Watson syndrome. The mRNA for this gene is subject to RNA editing (CGA>UGA->Arg1306Term) resulting in premature translation termination. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have also been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123349	 This gene encodes a member of the prefoldin alpha subunit family. The encoded protein is one of six subunits of prefoldin, a molecular chaperone complex that binds and stabilizes newly synthesized polypeptides, thereby allowing them to fold correctly. The complex, consisting of two alpha and four beta subunits, forms a double beta barrel assembly with six protruding coiled-coils. The encoded protein may also repress the transcriptional activity of the proto-oncogene c-Myc. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000090097	 This gene encodes a member of the KH-domain protein subfamily. Proteins of this subfamily, also referred to as alpha-CPs, bind to RNA with a specificity for C-rich pyrimidine regions. Alpha-CPs play important roles in post-transcriptional activities and have different cellular distributions. This gene is induced by the p53 tumor suppressor, and the encoded protein can suppress cell proliferation by inducing apoptosis and cell cycle arrest in G(2)-M. This gene's protein is found in the cytoplasm, yet it lacks the nuclear localization signals found in other subfamily members. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but the full-length nature for only some has been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102226	 Protein ubiquitination controls many intracellular processes, including cell cycle progression, transcriptional activation, and signal transduction. This dynamic process, involving ubiquitin conjugating enzymes and deubiquitinating enzymes, adds and removes ubiquitin. Deubiquitinating enzymes are cysteine proteases that specifically cleave ubiquitin from ubiquitin-conjugated protein substrates. This gene encodes a deubiquitinating enzyme which lies in a gene cluster on chromosome Xp11.23 [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000185513	 This gene represents a polycomb group gene. The encoded protein functions to regulate gene activity, likely via chromatin modification. The encoded protein may also be necessary for mitosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000100084	 This gene encodes a histone chaperone that preferentially places the variant histone H3.3 in nucleosomes. Orthologs of this gene in yeast, flies, and plants are necessary for the formation of transcriptionally silent heterochomatin. This gene plays an important role in the formation of the senescence-associated heterochromatin foci. These foci likely mediate the irreversible cell cycle changes that occur in senescent cells. It is considered the primary candidate gene in some haploinsufficiency syndromes such as DiGeorge syndrome, and insufficient production of the gene may disrupt normal embryonic development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116957	 Cofactor E is one of four proteins (cofactors A, D, E, and C) involved in the pathway leading to correctly folded beta-tubulin from folding intermediates. Cofactors A and D are believed to play a role in capturing and stabilizing beta-tubulin intermediates in a quasi-native confirmation. Cofactor E binds to the cofactor D/beta-tubulin complex; interaction with cofactor C then causes the release of beta-tubulin polypeptides that are committed to the native state. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000081148	 The protein encoded by this gene binds chondroitin sulfate and hyaluronan and is a proteoglycan. The encoded protein plays a role in the organization of the interphotoreceptor matrix and may promote the growth and maintenance of the light-sensitive photoreceptor outer segment. Defects in this gene are a cause of retinitis pigmentosa type 56 and maculopathy, IMPG2-related.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000163207	 Involucrin, a component of the keratinocyte crosslinked envelope, is found in the cytoplasm and crosslinked to membrane proteins by transglutaminase.  This gene is mapped to 1q21, among calpactin I light chain, trichohyalin, profillaggrin, loricrin, and calcyclin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000183638	 This gene encodes a member of the doublecortin family. The protein encoded by this gene contains two N-terminal doublecortin domains, which bind microtubules and regulate microtubule polymerization, and two C-terminal large repetitive regions, both of which contain a high percentage of glutamine and glutamic acid residues. This protein is a retinal-specific protein. Its exact length varies among individuals due to the presence of a 16aa repeat in the first C-terminal repetitive region. The 16aa repeat is encoded by the highly polymorphic 48-bp repeat, and 1-6 copies of the 16aa repeat have been identified in normal individuals. The current reference sequence shown here has a single copy of the 16aa repeat. This protein and the RP1 protein, another retinal-specific protein, play essential and synergistic roles in affecting photosensitivity and outer segment morphogenesis of rod photoreceptors. Mutations in this gene cause occult macular dystrophy (OMD). [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000104415	 This gene encodes a member of the WNT1 inducible signaling pathway (WISP) protein subfamily, which belongs to the connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) family. WNT1 is a member of a family of cysteine-rich, glycosylated signaling proteins that mediate diverse developmental processes. The CTGF family members are characterized by four conserved cysteine-rich domains: insulin-like growth factor-binding domain, von Willebrand factor type C module, thrombospondin domain and C-terminal cystine knot-like domain. This gene may be downstream in the WNT1 signaling pathway that is relevant to malignant transformation. It is expressed at a high level in fibroblast cells, and overexpressed in colon tumors. The encoded protein binds to decorin and biglycan, two members of a family of small leucine-rich proteoglycans present in the extracellular matrix of connective tissue, and possibly prevents the inhibitory activity of decorin and biglycan in tumor cell proliferation. It also attenuates p53-mediated apoptosis in response to DNA damage through activation of the Akt kinase. It is 83% identical to the mouse protein at the amino acid level. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000169062	 This gene encodes a protein that is part of a post-splicing multiprotein complex involved in both mRNA nuclear export and mRNA surveillance. The encoded protein is one of two functional homologs to yeast Upf3p. mRNA surveillance detects exported mRNAs with truncated open reading frames and initiates nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). When translation ends upstream from the last exon-exon junction, this triggers NMD to degrade mRNAs containing premature stop codons. This protein binds to the mRNA and remains bound after nuclear export, acting as a nucleocytoplasmic shuttling protein. It forms with Y14 a complex that binds specifically 20 nt upstream of exon-exon junctions. This gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 13. Two splice variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000244687	 Ubiquitin-conjugating E2 enzyme variant proteins constitute a distinct subfamily within the E2 protein family. They have sequence similarity to other ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes but lack the conserved cysteine residue that is critical for the catalytic activity of E2s. The protein encoded by this gene is located in the nucleus and can cause transcriptional activation of the human FOS proto-oncogene. It is thought to be involved in the control of differentiation by altering cell cycle behavior. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been described for this gene, and multiple pseudogenes of this gene have been identified. Co-transcription of this gene and the neighboring upstream gene generates a rare transcript (Kua-UEV), which encodes a fusion protein comprised of sequence sharing identity with each individual gene product. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000124731	 This gene encodes a receptor belonging to the Ig superfamily that is expressed on myeloid cells. This protein amplifies neutrophil and monocyte-mediated inflammatory responses triggered by bacterial and fungal infections by stimulating release of pro-inflammatory chemokines and cytokines, as well as increased surface expression of cell activation markers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000102524	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This cytokine is a ligand for receptors TNFRSF13B/TACI, TNFRSF17/BCMA, and TNFRSF13C/BAFFR. This cytokine is expressed in B cell lineage cells, and acts as a potent B cell activator. It has been also shown to play an important role in the proliferation and differentiation of B cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000162419	 This gene encodes a member of KDWK gene family which associates with GMEB2 protein. The GMEB1-GMEB2 complex is essential for parvovirus DNA replication. Studies in rat for a similar gene suggest that this gene's role is to modulate the transactivation of the glucocorticoid receptor when it is bound to glucocorticoid response elements. Two alternative spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms exist. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000171509	 This gene encodes a member of the leucine-rich repeat-containing subgroup of the G protein-coupled 7-transmembrane receptor superfamily. The encoded protein plays a critical role in sperm motility, pregnancy and parturition as a receptor for the protein hormone relaxin. Decreased expression of this gene may play a role in endometriosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000158062	 This gene encodes a protein with a divergent C-terminal UBX domain. The homologous protein in the rat interacts with members of the Rnd subfamily of Rho GTPases at the cell periphery through its C-terminal region. It also interacts with several heterotrimeric G proteins through their G-alpha subunits and promotes Rho GTPase activation. It is proposed to serve a bidirectional role in the promotion and inhibition of Rho activity through upstream signaling pathways. The 3' coding sequence of this gene contains a polymoprhic region of 24 nt tandem repeats. Several transcripts containing between 1.5 and five repeat units have been reported. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166340	 This gene encodes a member of the sedolisin family of serine proteases. The protease functions in the lysosome to cleave N-terminal tripeptides from substrates, and has weaker endopeptidase activity. It is synthesized as a catalytically-inactive enzyme which is activated and auto-proteolyzed upon acidification. Mutations in this gene result in late-infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, which is associated with the failure to degrade specific neuropeptides and a subunit of ATP synthase in the lysosome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000259384	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the somatotropin/prolactin family of hormones which play an important role in growth control. The gene, along with four other related genes, is located at the growth hormone locus on chromosome 17 where they are interspersed in the same transcriptional orientation; an arrangement which is thought to have evolved by a series of gene duplications. The five genes share a remarkably high degree of sequence identity. Alternative splicing generates additional isoforms of each of the five growth hormones, leading to further diversity and potential for specialization. This particular family member is expressed in the pituitary but not in placental tissue as is the case for the other four genes in the growth hormone locus. Mutations in or deletions of the gene lead to growth hormone deficiency and short stature. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165478	 The protein encoded by this gene is a single-pass type I membrane protein that localizes to the cytoplasmic side of the cell membrane. The encoded protein acts as a homodimer and is involved in cell motility and cell-matrix interactions. The expression of this gene is downregulated or undetectable in many cancer cell lines, so this may be a tumor suppressor gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000147044	 This gene encodes a calcium/calmodulin-dependent serine protein kinase. The encoded protein is a MAGUK (membrane-associated guanylate kinase) protein family member. These proteins are scaffold proteins and the encoded protein is located at synapses in the brain. Mutations in this gene are associated with FG syndrome 4, mental retardation and microcephaly with pontine and cerebellar hypoplasia, and a form of X-linked mental retardation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000122335	 The protein encoded by this gene is a phosphatidylglycerol remodeling protein found at the interface of mitochondria and endoplasmic reticula, where it mediates phospholipid exchange. The encoded protein plays a major role in mitochondrial function and intracellular cholesterol trafficking. Defects in this gene are a cause of 3-methylglutaconic aciduria with deafness, encephalopathy, and Leigh-like syndrome (MEGDEL). Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other non-protein coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000089041	 The product of this gene belongs to the family of purinoceptors for ATP. This receptor functions as a ligand-gated ion channel and is responsible for ATP-dependent lysis of macrophages through the formation of membrane pores permeable to large molecules. Activation of this nuclear receptor by ATP in the cytoplasm may be a mechanism by which cellular activity can be coupled to changes in gene expression. Multiple alternatively spliced variants have been identified, most of which fit nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) criteria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000136869	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans and share structural and functional similarities. They recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns that are expressed on infectious agents, and mediate the production of cytokines necessary for the development of effective immunity. The various TLRs exhibit different patterns of expression. This receptor has been implicated in signal transduction events induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) found in most gram-negative bacteria. Mutations in this gene have been associated with differences in LPS responsiveness. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000134851	 This gene encodes a predicted transmembrane protein with a perinuclear Golgi-like distribution in fibroblasts. Mutations in this gene are associated with the autosomal recessive disorder congenital disorder of glycosylation, type IIk. Knockdown of this gene's expression causes decreased sialylation in HEK cells and suggests this gene plays a role in terminal Golgi glycosylation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000186297	 GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. At least 16 distinct subunits of GABA-A receptors have been identified. Transcript variants utilizing three different alternative non-coding first exons have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120094	 This gene belongs to the homeobox family of genes. The homeobox genes encode a highly conserved family of transcription factors that play an important role in morphogenesis in all multicellular organisms. Mammals possess four similar homeobox gene clusters, HOXA, HOXB, HOXC and HOXD, located on different chromosomes, consisting of 9 to 11 genes arranged in tandem. This gene is one of several homeobox HOXB genes located in a cluster on chromosome 17. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182256	 This gene encodes a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor. GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain where it acts at GABA-A receptors, which are ligand-gated chloride channels. Chloride conductance of these channels can be modulated by agents such as benzodiazepines that bind to the GABA-A receptor. GABA-A receptors are pentameric, consisting of proteins from several subunit classes: alpha, beta, gamma, delta and rho. The protein encoded by this gene is a gamma subunit, which contains the benzodiazepine binding site. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000143387	 The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase involved in bone remodeling and resorption. This protein, which is a member of the peptidase C1 protein family, is predominantly expressed in osteoclasts. However, the encoded protein is also expressed in a significant fraction of human breast cancers, where it could contribute to tumor invasiveness. Mutations in this gene are the cause of pycnodysostosis, an autosomal recessive disease characterized by osteosclerosis and short stature. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013]. 
ENSG00000241343	 Cytoplasmic ribosomes, organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 60S subunit. The protein, which shares sequence similarity with yeast ribosomal protein L44, belongs to the L44E (L36AE) family of ribosomal proteins. Although this gene has been referred to as ribosomal protein L44 (RPL44), its official name is ribosomal protein L36a (RPL36A). This gene and the human gene officially named ribosomal protein L36a-like (RPL36AL) encode nearly identical proteins; however, they are distinct genes. As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome. Naturally occurring read-through transcription occurs between this locus and the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein H2 (H') gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000050426	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial outer membrane protein. It has a potential role in tumorigenesis, which may result from negative regulation of the p53 tumor suppressor gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000124302	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfotransferase 2 family. It is predominantly expressed in the pituitary gland, and is localized to the golgi membrane. This protein catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 4 of non-reducing N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residues in both N-glycans and O-glycans. It is responsible for sulfation of GalNAc on luteinizing hormone (LH), which is required for production of the sex hormones. Mice lacking this enzyme, exhibit increased levels of circulating LH, and precocious sexual maturation of both male and female mice. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000154080	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfotransferase 2 family. It is localized to the golgi membrane, and catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 4 of non-reducing N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residues in both N-glycans and O-glycans. Sulfate groups on carbohydrates confer highly specific functions to glycoproteins, glycolipids, and proteoglycans, and are critical for cell-cell interaction, signal transduction, and embryonic development. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000136213	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfotransferase 2 family. It is localized to the golgi membrane, and catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 4 of the N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residue of chondroitin and desulfated dermatan sulfate. Chondroitin sulfate constitutes the predominant proteoglycan present in cartilage, and is distributed on the surfaces of many cells and extracellular matrices. Alternatively spliced transcript variants differing only in their 5' UTRs have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000102804	 This gene encodes a member of the TSC22 domain family of leucine zipper transcription factors. The encoded protein is stimulated by transforming growth factor beta, and regulates the transcription of multiple genes including C-type natriuretic peptide. The encoded protein may play a critical role in tumor suppression through the induction of cancer cell apoptosis, and a single nucleotide polymorphism in the promoter of this gene has been associated with diabetic nephropathy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000099783	 This gene belongs to the subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are RNA binding proteins and they complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA). These proteins are associated with pre-mRNAs in the nucleus and appear to influence pre-mRNA processing and other aspects of mRNA metabolism and transport. While all of the hnRNPs are present in the nucleus, some seem to shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The hnRNP proteins have distinct nucleic acid binding properties. The protein encoded by this gene has three repeats of quasi-RRM domains that bind to RNAs. This protein also constitutes a monomer of the N-acetylglucosamine-specific receptor which is postulated to trigger selective recycling of immature GlcNAc-bearing thyroglobulin molecules. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000174792	 Dental enamel forms the outer cap of teeth and is the hardest substance found in vertebrates. This gene is thought to encode an extracellular matrix acidic phosphoprotein that has a function in enamel mineralization during amelogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with recessive hypomineralized amelogenesis imperfecta. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]. 
ENSG00000187049	 This locus encodes a transmembrane domain-containing protein. Mutations at this locus have been associated with Meckel-Gruber Syndrome Type 2, and Joubert Syndrome 2, also known as Cerebello-oculorenal Syndrome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000081985	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane protein identified as a subunit of the interleukin 12 receptor complex. The coexpression of this and IL12RB1 proteins was shown to lead to the formation of high-affinity IL12 binding sites and reconstitution of IL12 dependent signaling. The expression of this gene is up-regulated by interferon gamma in Th1 cells, and plays a role in Th1 cell differentiation. The up-regulation of this gene is found to be associated with a number of infectious diseases, such as Crohn's disease and leprosy, which is thought to contribute to the inflammatory response and host defense. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms and non-protein coding transcripts have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000095209	 This gene encodes an intracellular monovalent cation channel that functions in maintenance of intracellular calcium release. Mutations in this gene may be associated with autosomal recessive osteogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]. 
ENSG00000102935	 The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear protein that belongs to the family of Kruppel-like C2H2 zinc finger proteins. It functions as a DNA-binding transcription factor by using distinct zinc fingers in different signaling pathways. Thus, it is thought that this gene may have multiple roles in signal transduction during development. Mutations in this gene are associated with nephronophthisis-14 and Joubert syndrome-19. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]. 
ENSG00000174080	 Cathepsins are papain family cysteine proteinases that represent a major component of the lysosomal proteolytic system. Cathepsins generally contain a signal sequence, followed by a propeptide and then a catalytically active mature region. The very long (251 amino acid residues) proregion of the cathepsin F precursor contains a C-terminal domain similar to the pro-segment of cathepsin L-like enzymes, a 50-residue flexible linker peptide, and an N-terminal domain predicted to adopt a cystatin-like fold. The cathepsin F proregion is unique within the papain family cysteine proteases in that it contains this additional N-terminal segment predicted to share structural similarities with cysteine protease inhibitors of the cystatin superfamily. This cystatin-like domain contains some of the elements known to be important for inhibitory activity. CTSF encodes a predicted protein of 484 amino acids which contains a 19 residue signal peptide. Cathepsin F contains five potential N-glycosylation sites, and it may be targeted to the endosomal/lysosomal compartment via the mannose 6-phosphate receptor pathway. The cathepsin F gene is ubiquitously expressed, and it maps to chromosome 11q13, close to the gene encoding cathepsin W. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000107968	 This gene is an oncogene that encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. The encoded protein localizes to the cytoplasm and can activate both the MAP kinase and JNK kinase pathways. This protein was shown to activate IkappaB kinases, and thus induce the nuclear production of NF-kappaB. This protein was also found to promote the production of TNF-alpha and IL-2 during T lymphocyte activation. This gene may also utilize a downstream in-frame translation start codon, and thus produce an isoform containing a shorter N-terminus. The shorter isoform has been shown to display weaker transforming activity. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000185532	 Mammals have three different isoforms of cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase (Ialpha, Ibeta, and II). These PRKG isoforms act as key mediators of the nitric oxide/cGMP signaling pathway and are important components of many signal transduction processes in diverse cell types. This PRKG1 gene on human chromosome 10 encodes the soluble Ialpha and Ibeta isoforms of PRKG by alternative transcript splicing. A separate gene on human chromosome 4, PRKG2, encodes the membrane-bound PRKG isoform II. The PRKG1 proteins play a central role in regulating cardiovascular and neuronal functions in addition to relaxing smooth muscle tone, preventing platelet aggregation, and modulating cell growth. This gene is most strongly expressed in all types of smooth muscle, platelets, cerebellar Purkinje cells, hippocampal neurons, and the lateral amygdala. Isoforms Ialpha and Ibeta have identical cGMP-binding and catalytic domains but differ in their leucine/isoleucine zipper and autoinhibitory sequences and therefore differ in their dimerization substrates and kinase enzyme activity. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000173402	 Dystroglycan is a laminin binding component of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex which provides a linkage between the subsarcolemmal cytoskeleton and the extracellular matrix. Dystroglycan 1 is a candidate gene for the site of the mutation in autosomal recessive muscular dystrophies. The dramatic reduction of dystroglycan 1 in Duchenne muscular dystrophy leads to a loss of linkage between the sarcolemma and extracellular matrix, rendering muscle fibers more susceptible to necrosis. Dystroglycan also functions as dual receptor for agrin and laminin-2 in the Schwann cell membrane. The muscle and nonmuscle isoforms of dystroglycan differ by carbohydrate moieties but not protein sequence. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants all encoding the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000113282	 This gene encodes a protein with similarity to the epsin family of endocytic adapter proteins. The encoded protein interacts with clathrin, the adapter protein AP-1 and phosphoinositides. This protein may be involved in the formation of clathrin coated vesicles and trafficking between the trans-Golgi network and endosomes. Mutations in this gene are associated with a susceptibility to schizophrenia and psychotic disorders. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000204390	 This gene encodes a 70kDa heat shock protein. In conjunction with other heat shock proteins, this protein stabilizes existing proteins against aggregation and mediates the folding of newly translated proteins in the cytosol and in organelles. The gene is located in the major histocompatibility complex class III region, in a cluster with two closely related genes which also encode isoforms of the 70kDa heat shock protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164252	 This gene encodes an angiogenic factor that promotes proliferation of endothelial cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with a susceptibility to Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 3, 4, 10 and 16.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000107679	 This gene encodes a pleckstrin homology domain-containing adapter protein. The encoded protein is localized to the plasma membrane where it specifically binds phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate. This protein may be involved in the formation of signaling complexes in the plasma membrane. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with age-related macular degeneration. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 5.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000130299	 This locus encodes a GTP-binding protein. The encoded protein is localized to the mitochondria and may play a role in mitochondrial tRNA modification. Polymorphisms at this locus may be associated with severity of aminoglycoside-induced deafness, a disease associated with a mutation in the 12S rRNA. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000176884	 The protein encoded by this gene is a critical subunit of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, members of the glutamate receptor channel superfamily which are heteromeric protein complexes with multiple subunits arranged to form a ligand-gated ion channel. These subunits play a key role in the plasticity of synapses, which is believed to underlie memory and learning. Cell-specific factors are thought to control expression of different isoforms, possibly contributing to the functional diversity of the subunits. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137992	 The branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase complex (BCKD) is an inner-mitochondrial enzyme complex involved in the breakdown of the branched-chain amino acids isoleucine, leucine, and valine. The BCKD complex is thought to be composed of a core of 24 transacylase (E2) subunits, and associated decarboxylase (E1), dehydrogenase (E3), and regulatory subunits. This gene encodes the transacylase (E2) subunit. Mutations in this gene result in maple syrup urine disease, type 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168546	 Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and neurturin (NTN) are two structurally related, potent neurotrophic factors that play key roles in the control of neuron survival and differentiation. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the GDNF receptor family. It is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol(GPI)-linked cell surface receptor for both GDNF and NTN, and mediates activation of the RET tyrosine kinase receptor. This encoded protein acts preferentially as a receptor for NTN compared to its other family member, GDNF family receptor alpha 1. This gene is a candidate gene for RET-associated diseases. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000010030	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ETS family of transcription factors, which is a large group of evolutionarily conserved transcriptional regulators that play an important role in a variety of cellular processes throughout development and differentiation, and are involved in oncogenesis as well. This protein is predominantly expressed in hematopoietic tissues. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene (PMID:11108721).[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000078808	 This gene encodes a stromal cell derived factor that is a member of the CREC protein family. The encoded protein contains six EF-hand motifs and calcium-binding motifs. This protein localizes to the Golgi lumen and may be involved in regulating calcium dependent cellular activities. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000075618	 This gene encodes a member of the fascin family of actin-binding proteins. Fascin proteins organize F-actin into parallel bundles, and are required for the formation of actin-based cellular protrusions. The encoded protein plays a critical role in cell migration, motility, adhesion and cellular interactions. Expression of this gene is known to be regulated by several microRNAs, and overexpression of this gene may play a role in the metastasis of multiple types of cancer by increasing cell motility. Expression of this gene is also a marker for Reed-Sternberg cells in Hodgkin's lymphoma. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 15. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000105967	 This gene encodes a member of the micropthalmia (MiT) family of basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper transcription factors. MiT transcription factors regulate the expression of target genes by binding to E-box recognition sequences as homo- or heterodimers, and play roles in multiple cellular processes including survival, growth and differentiation. The encoded protein is a transcriptional activator of the nonmuscle myosin II heavy chain-A gene, and may also co-regulate target genes in osteoclasts as a heterodimer with micropthalmia-associated transcription factor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000184371	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of macrophages. The active form of the protein is found extracellularly as a disulfide-linked homodimer, and is thought to be produced by proteolytic cleavage of membrane-bound precursors. The encoded protein may be involved in development of the placenta. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000186868	 This gene encodes the microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) whose transcript undergoes complex, regulated alternative splicing, giving rise to several mRNA species. MAPT transcripts are differentially expressed in the nervous system, depending on stage of neuronal maturation and neuron type. MAPT gene mutations have been associated with several neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Pick's disease, frontotemporal dementia, cortico-basal degeneration and progressive supranuclear palsy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000179083	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL009173.2. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000151914	 This gene encodes a member of the plakin protein family of adhesion junction plaque proteins. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been defined. It has been reported that some isoforms are expressed in neural and muscle tissue, anchoring neural intermediate filaments to the actin cytoskeleton, and some isoforms are expressed in epithelial tissue, anchoring keratin-containing intermediate filaments to hemidesmosomes. Consistent with the expression, mice defective for this gene show skin blistering and neurodegeneration. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000081237	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitosis, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains an extracellular domain, a single transmembrane segment and two tandem intracytoplasmic catalytic domains, and thus is classified as a receptor type PTP. This PTP has been shown to be an essential regulator of T- and B-cell antigen receptor signaling. It functions through either direct interaction with components of the antigen receptor complexes, or by activating various Src family kinases required for the antigen receptor signaling. This PTP also suppresses JAK kinases, and thus functions as a regulator of cytokine receptor signaling. Alternatively spliced transcripts variants of this gene, which encode distinct isoforms, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000170445	 Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic enzyme which belongs to the class II family of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. The enzyme is responsible for the synthesis of histidyl-transfer RNA, which is essential for the incorporation of histidine into proteins. The gene is located in a head-to-head orientation with HARSL on chromosome five, where the homologous genes share a bidirectional promoter. The gene product is a frequent target of autoantibodies in the human autoimmune disease polymyositis/dermatomyositis. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000125744	 This gene belongs to the family of reticulon encoding genes. Reticulons are necessary for proper generation of tubular endoplasmic reticulum and likely play a role in intracellular vesicular transport. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. Mutations at this locus have been associated with autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia-12. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000178449	 This gene encodes a small single-pass transmembrane protein that localizes to mitochondria. This protein may play a role in coordinating the early steps of cytochrome c oxidase (COX; also known as complex IV) subunit assembly and, in particular, the synthesis and assembly of the COX I subunit of the holoenzyme. Mutations in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial complex IV deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]. 
ENSG00000163106	 Prostaglandin-D synthase is a sigma class glutathione-S-transferase family member. The enzyme catalyzes the conversion of PGH2 to PGD2 and plays a role in the production of prostanoids in the immune system and mast cells. The presence of this enzyme can be used to identify the differentiation stage of human megakaryocytes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170498	 This gene is a metastasis suppressor gene that suppresses metastases of melanomas and breast carcinomas without affecting tumorigenicity. The encoded protein may inhibit chemotaxis and invasion and thereby attenuate metastasis in malignant melanomas. Studies suggest a putative role in the regulation of events downstream of cell-matrix adhesion, perhaps involving cytoskeletal reorganization. A protein product of this gene, kisspeptin, stimulates gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-induced gonadotropin secretion and regulates the pubertal activation of GnRH nuerons. A polymorphism in the terminal exon of this mRNA results in two protein isoforms. An adenosine present at the polymorphic site represents the third position in a stop codon. When the adenosine is absent, a downstream stop codon is utilized and the encoded protein extends for an additional seven amino acid residues. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000199916	 This gene encodes the RNA component of mitochondrial RNA processing endoribonuclease, which cleaves mitochondrial RNA at a priming site of mitochondrial DNA replication. This RNA also interacts with the telomerase reverse transcriptase catalytic subunit to form a distinct ribonucleoprotein complex that has RNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity and produces double-stranded RNAs that can be processed into small interfering RNA. Mutations in this gene are associated with cartilage-hair hypoplasia.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000154920	 This gene encodes a protein that complexes with methyl methanesulfonate-sensitive UV-sensitive 81 protein to form an endonuclease complex. The encoded protein interacts with specifc DNA structures including nicked Holliday junctions, 3'-flap structures and aberrant replication fork structures. This protein may be involved in repairing DNA damage and in maintaining genomic stability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000090402	 This gene encodes a sucrase-isomaltase enzyme that is expressed in the intestinal brush border. The encoded protein is synthesized as a precursor protein that is cleaved by pancreatic proteases into two enzymatic subunits sucrase and isomaltase. These two subunits heterodimerize to form the sucrose-isomaltase complex. This complex is essential for the digestion of dietary carbohydrates including starch, sucrose and isomaltose. Mutations in this gene are the cause of congenital sucrase-isomaltase deficiency.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000143537	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase) protein family. ADAM family members are type I transmembrane glycoproteins known to be involved in cell adhesion and proteolytic ectodomain processing of cytokines and adhesion molecules. This protein contains multiple functional domains including a zinc-binding metalloprotease domain, a disintegrin-like domain, as well as a EGF-like domain. Through its disintegrin-like domain, this protein specifically interacts with the integrin beta chain, beta 3. It also interacts with Src family protein-tyrosine kinases in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, suggesting that this protein may function in cell-cell adhesion as well as in cellular signaling. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000100170	 This gene encodes a member of the sodium-dependent glucose transporter (SGLT) family. The encoded integral membrane protein is the primary mediator of dietary glucose and galactose uptake from the intestinal lumen. Mutations in this gene have been associated with glucose-galactose malabsorption. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000179218	 Calreticulin is a multifunctional protein that acts as a major Ca(2+)-binding (storage) protein in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum. It is also found in the nucleus, suggesting that it may have a role in transcription regulation. Calreticulin binds to the synthetic peptide KLGFFKR, which is almost identical to an amino acid sequence in the DNA-binding domain of the superfamily of nuclear receptors. Calreticulin binds to antibodies in certain sera of systemic lupus and Sjogren patients which contain anti-Ro/SSA antibodies, it is highly conserved among species, and it is located in the endoplasmic and sarcoplasmic reticulum where it may bind calcium. The amino terminus of calreticulin interacts with the DNA-binding domain of the glucocorticoid receptor and prevents the receptor from binding to its specific glucocorticoid response element. Calreticulin can inhibit the binding of androgen receptor to its hormone-responsive DNA element and can inhibit androgen receptor and retinoic acid receptor transcriptional activities in vivo, as well as retinoic acid-induced neuronal differentiation. Thus, calreticulin can act as an important modulator of the regulation of gene transcription by nuclear hormone receptors. Systemic lupus erythematosus is associated with increased autoantibody titers against calreticulin but calreticulin is not a Ro/SS-A antigen. Earlier papers referred to calreticulin as an Ro/SS-A antigen but this was later disproven. Increased autoantibody titer against human calreticulin is found in infants with complete congenital heart block of both the IgG and IgM classes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000143702	 The product of this gene is a component of the centrosome, a non-membraneous organelle that functions as the major microtubule-organizing center in animal cells. During interphase, the encoded protein localizes to the sub-distal appendages of mature centrioles, which are microtubule-based structures thought to help organize centrosomes. During mitosis, the protein associates with spindle microtubules near the centrosomes. The protein interacts with and is phosphorylated by polo-like kinase 1, and functions in maintaining microtubule organization and cell morphology. The human genome contains a putative transcribed pseudogene. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been found, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000241186	 This gene encodes an epidermal growth factor-related protein that contains a cripto, FRL-1, and cryptic domain. The encoded protein is an extracellular, membrane-bound signaling protein that plays an essential role in embryonic development and tumor growth. Mutations in this gene are associated with forebrain defects. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 2, 3, 6, 8, 19 and X. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000148516	 This gene encodes a zinc finger transcription factor. The encoded protein likely plays a role in transcriptional repression of interleukin 2. Mutations in this gene have been associated with posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy-3 and late-onset Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000103148	 The function of the encoded protein is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000088002	 Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of many hormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolic enzymes are different in their tissue distributions and substrate specificities. The gene structure (number and length of exons) is similar among family members. This gene sulfates dehydroepiandrosterone but not 4-nitrophenol, a typical substrate for the phenol and estrogen sulfotransferase subfamilies. Two alternatively spliced variants that encode different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204580	 Receptor tyrosine kinases play a key role in the communication of cells with their microenvironment. These kinases are involved in the regulation of cell growth, differentiation and metabolism. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a subfamily of tyrosine kinase receptors with homology to Dictyostelium discoideum protein discoidin I in their extracellular domain, and that are activated by various types of collagen. Expression of this protein is restricted to epithelial cells, particularly in the kidney, lung, gastrointestinal tract, and brain. In addition, it has been shown to be significantly overexpressed in several human tumors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000138685	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF family members bind heparin and possess broad mitogenic and angiogenic activities. This protein has been implicated in diverse biological processes, such as limb and nervous system development, wound healing, and tumor growth. The mRNA for this gene contains multiple polyadenylation sites, and is alternatively translated from non-AUG (CUG) and AUG initiation codons, resulting in five different isoforms with distinct properties. The CUG-initiated isoforms are localized in the nucleus and are responsible for the intracrine effect, whereas, the AUG-initiated form is mostly cytosolic and is responsible for the paracrine and autocrine effects of this FGF. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000161944	 This gene encodes a subunit of the asialoglycoprotein receptor. This receptor is a transmembrane protein that plays a critical role in serum glycoprotein homeostasis by mediating the endocytosis and lysosomal degradation of glycoproteins with exposed terminal galactose or N-acetylgalactosamine residues. The asialoglycoprotein receptor may facilitate hepatic infection by multiple viruses including hepatitis B, and is also a target for liver-specific drug delivery. The asialoglycoprotein receptor is a hetero-oligomeric protein composed of major and minor subunits, which are encoded by different genes. The protein encoded by this gene is the less abundant minor subunit. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000095794	 This gene encodes a bZIP transcription factor that binds to the cAMP responsive element found in many viral and cellular promoters. It is an important component of cAMP-mediated signal transduction during the spermatogenetic cycle, as well as other complex processes. Alternative promoter and translation initiation site usage allows this gene to exert spatial and temporal specificity to cAMP responsiveness. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene, with some of them functioning as activators and some as repressors of transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000085185	 The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional corepressor that is found tethered to promoter regions by DNA-binding proteins. The encoded protein can interact with several different class II histone deacetylases to repress transcription. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000166888	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the STAT family of transcription factors. In response to cytokines and growth factors, STAT family members are phosphorylated by the receptor associated kinases, and then form homo- or heterodimers that translocate to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators. This protein plays a central role in exerting IL4 mediated biological responses. It is found to induce the expression of BCL2L1/BCL-X(L), which is responsible for the anti-apoptotic activity of IL4. Knockout studies in mice suggested the roles of this gene in differentiation of T helper 2 (Th2) cells, expression of cell surface markers, and class switch of immunoglobulins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000197165	 Sulfotransferase enzymes catalyze the sulfate conjugation of many hormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. These cytosolic enzymes are different in their tissue distributions and substrate specificities. The gene structure (number and length of exons) is similar among family members. This gene encodes one of two phenol sulfotransferases with thermostable enzyme activity. Two alternatively spliced variants that encode the same protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000154553	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a PDZ domain and a LIM domain, indicating that it may be involved in cytoskeletal assembly. In support of this, the encoded protein has been shown to bind the spectrin-like repeats of alpha-actinin-2 and to colocalize with alpha-actinin-2 at the Z lines of skeletal muscle. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. Aberrant alternative splicing of this gene may play a role in myotonic dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000173535	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor contains an extracellular TRAIL-binding domain and a transmembrane domain, but no cytoplasmic death domain. This receptor is not capable of inducing apoptosis, and is thought to function as an antagonistic receptor that protects cells from TRAIL-induced apoptosis. This gene was found to be a p53-regulated DNA damage-inducible gene. The expression of this gene was detected in many normal tissues but not in most cancer cell lines, which may explain the specific sensitivity of cancer cells to the apoptosis-inducing activity of TRAIL. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173530	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor contains an extracellular TRAIL-binding domain, a transmembrane domain, and a truncated cytoplamic death domain. This receptor does not induce apoptosis, and has been shown to play an inhibitory role in TRAIL-induced cell apoptosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000122852	 This gene encodes a lung surfactant protein that is a member of a subfamily of C-type lectins called collectins. The encoded protein binds specific carbohydrate moieties found on lipids and on the surface of microorganisms. This protein plays an essential role in surfactant homeostasis and in the defense against respiratory pathogens. Mutations in this gene are associated with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000157765	 The protein encoded by this gene is a pH-sensitive sodium-dependent phosphate transporter. Phosphate uptake is increased at lower pH. Defects in this gene are a cause of pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000139351	 This gene encodes an essential structural component of the synaptonemal complex. This complex is involved in synapsis, recombination and segregation of meiotic chromosomes. Mutations in this gene are associated with azoospermia in males and susceptibility to pregnancy loss in females. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000196876	 This gene encodes a member of the sodium channel alpha subunit gene family. The encoded protein forms the ion pore region of the voltage-gated sodium channel. This protein is essential for the rapid membrane depolarization that occurs during the formation of the action potential in excitable neurons. Mutations in this gene are associated with mental retardation, pancerebellar atrophy and ataxia. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000100625	 This gene encodes a member of the homeobox family, subfamily SIX. The drosophila homolog is a nuclear homeoprotein required for eye development. Studies in mouse show that this gene product functions as a transcription factor, and may have a role in the differentiation or maturation of neuronal cells. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000163795	 The protein encoded by this gene is a possible transcriptional regulator involved in retinal development. Defects in this gene can be a cause of autosomal-recessive retinitis pigmentosa. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000104938	 This gene encodes a transmembrane receptor and is often referred to as L-SIGN because of its expression in the endothelial cells of the lymph nodes and liver. The encoded protein is involved in the innate immune system and recognizes numerous evolutionarily divergent pathogens ranging from parasites to viruses, with a large impact on public health. The protein is organized into three distinct domains: an N-terminal transmembrane domain, a tandem-repeat neck domain and C-type lectin carbohydrate recognition domain. The extracellular region consisting of the C-type lectin and neck domains has a dual function as a pathogen recognition receptor and a cell adhesion receptor by binding carbohydrate ligands on the surface of microbes and endogenous cells. The neck region is important for homo-oligomerization which allows the receptor to bind multivalent ligands with high avidity. Variations in the number of 23 amino acid repeats in the neck domain of this protein are common and have a significant impact on ligand binding ability. This gene is closely related in terms of both sequence and function to a neighboring gene (GeneID 30835; often referred to as DC-SIGN or CD209). DC-SIGN and L-SIGN differ in their ligand-binding properties and distribution. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000102780	 This gene encodes a member of the diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) enzyme family of proteins, specifically the type II DGK subfamily. Members of this family are involved in regulating the intracellular concentrations of diacylglycerol and phosphatidic acid. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000167244	 This gene encodes a member of the insulin family of polypeptide growth factors, which are involved in development and growth. It is an imprinted gene, expressed only from the paternal allele, and epigenetic changes at this locus are associated with Wilms tumour, Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, rhabdomyosarcoma, and Silver-Russell syndrome. A read-through INS-IGF2 gene exists, whose 5' region overlaps the INS gene and the 3' region overlaps this gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000124107	  This gene encodes a secreted inhibitor which protects epithelial tissues from serine proteases.  It is found in various secretions including seminal plasma, cervical mucus, and bronchial secretions, and has affinity for trypsin, leukocyte elastase, and cathepsin G.  Its inhibitory effect contributes to the immune response by protecting epithelial surfaces from attack by endogenous proteolytic enzymes; the protein is also thought to have broad-spectrum anti-biotic activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145730	 This gene encodes a multifunctional protein. It has two enzymatically active domains with catalytic activities - peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM) and peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase (PAL). These catalytic domains work sequentially to catalyze neuroendocrine peptides to active alpha-amidated products. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene but some of their full length sequences are not yet known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000103490	 This gene encodes an adaptor protein that is composed of two protein-protein interaction domains: a N-terminal PYRIN-PAAD-DAPIN domain (PYD) and a C-terminal caspase-recruitment domain (CARD). The PYD and CARD domains are members of the six-helix bundle death domain-fold superfamily that mediates assembly of large signaling complexes in the inflammatory and apoptotic signaling pathways via the activation of caspase. In normal cells, this protein is localized to the cytoplasm; however, in cells undergoing apoptosis, it forms ball-like aggregates near the nuclear periphery. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108788	 The product of this gene belongs to the family of basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper (bHLH-Zip) transcription factors. These factors form heterodimers with Mad proteins and play a role in proliferation, determination and differentiation. This gene product may act to diversify Mad family function by its restricted association with a subset of the Mad family of transcriptional repressors, namely, Mad1 and Mad4. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000130396	 This gene encodes a multi-domain protein involved in signaling and organization of cell junctions during embryogenesis. It has also been identified as the fusion partner of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL-1) gene, involved in acute myeloid leukemias with t(6;11)(q27;q23) translocation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene, however, not all have been fully characterized.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000170266	 This gene encodes beta-galactosidase-1, a lysosomal enzyme that hydrolyzes the terminal beta-galactose from ganglioside substrates and other glycoconjugates. Defects in this gene are the cause of GM1-gangliosidosis and Morquio B syndrome. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000205810	 Natural killer (NK) cells are lymphocytes that can mediate lysis of certain tumor cells and virus-infected cells without previous activation. They can also regulate specific humoral and cell-mediated immunity. NK cells preferentially express several calcium-dependent (C-type) lectins, which have been implicated in the regulation of NK cell function. KLRC3 is a member of the NKG2 group which are expressed primarily in natural killer (NK) cells and encodes a family of transmembrane proteins characterized by a type II membrane orientation (extracellular C terminus) and the presence of a C-type lectin domain. The NKG2 gene family is located within the NK complex, a region that contains several C-type lectin genes preferentially expressed on NK cells. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106852	 This gene encodes a member of a large protein family that contains the LIM domain, a unique cysteine-rich zinc-binding domain. The encoded protein may function as a transcriptional regulator and may be involved in the control of differentiation and development of neural and lymphoid cells. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described for this gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000122566	 This gene belongs to the A/B subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are RNA binding proteins and they complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA). These proteins are associated with pre-mRNAs in the nucleus and appear to influence pre-mRNA processing and other aspects of mRNA metabolism and transport. While all of the hnRNPs are present in the nucleus, some seem to shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The hnRNP proteins have distinct nucleic acid binding properties. The protein encoded by this gene has two repeats of quasi-RRM domains that bind to RNAs. This gene has been described to generate two alternatively spliced transcript variants which encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000152795	 This gene belongs to the subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are RNA binding proteins and they complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA). These proteins are associated with pre-mRNAs in the nucleus and appear to influence pre-mRNA processing and other aspects of mRNA metabolism and transport. While all of the hnRNPs are present in the nucleus, some seem to shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The hnRNP proteins have distinct nucleic acid binding properties. The protein encoded by this gene has two RRM domains that bind to RNAs. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. One of the variants is probably not translated because the transcript is a candidate for nonsense-mediated mRNA decay. The protein isoforms encoded by this gene are similar to its family member HNRPD. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000128285	 The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family 1, is an integral plasma membrane protein which binds melanin-concentrating hormone. The encoded protein can inhibit cAMP accumulation and stimulate intracellular calcium flux, and is probably involved in the neuronal regulation of food consumption. Although structurally similar to somatostatin receptors, this protein does not seem to bind somatostatin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000156110	 This gene an enzyme which catalyzes the transfer of the gamma-phosphate from ATP to adenosine, thereby serving as a regulator of concentrations of both extracellular adenosine and intracellular adenine nucleotides. Adenosine has widespread effects on the cardiovascular, nervous, respiratory, and immune systems and inhibitors of the enzyme could play an important pharmacological role in increasing intravascular adenosine concentrations and acting as anti-inflammatory agents. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000106484	 This gene encodes a member of the alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily. It is imprinted, exhibiting preferential expression from the paternal allele in fetal tissues, and isoform-specific imprinting in lymphocytes. The loss of imprinting of this gene has been linked to certain types of cancer and may be due to promotor switching. The encoded protein may play a role in development. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been identified for this gene. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on the short arm of chromosomes 3 and 4, and the long arm of chromosomes 6 and 15. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000137812	 The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the multiprotein assembly that is required for creation of kinetochore-microtubule attachments and chromosome segregation. The encoded protein functions as a scaffold for proteins that influence the spindle assembly checkpoint during the eukaryotic cell cycle and it interacts with at least five different kinetochore proteins and two checkpoint kinases. In adults, this gene is predominantly expressed in normal testes, various cancer cell lines and primary tumors from other tissues and is ubiquitously expressed in fetal tissues. This gene was originally identified as a fusion partner with the mixed-lineage leukemia (MLL) gene in t(11;15)(q23;q14). Mutations in this gene cause autosomal recessive primary microcephaly-4 (MCPH4). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Additional splice variants have been described but their biological validity has not been confirmed. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000132517	 Biological redox reactions require electron donors and acceptor. Vitamin B2 is the source for the flavin in flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) and flavin mononucleotide (FMN) which are common redox reagents. This gene encodes a member of the riboflavin (vitamin B2) transporter family. Haploinsufficiency of this protein can cause maternal riboflavin deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000157423	 This gene encodes a protein that may be involved in cilia motility. Mutations in this gene cause of autosomal recessive primary ciliary dyskinesia-5, a disorder characterized by the accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid within the ventricles of the brain. A duplicate copy of this gene has been found in humans on chromosome 1. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000095319	 The nuclear pore complex (NPC) is found on the nuclear envelope and forms a gateway that regulates the flow of proteins and RNAs between the cytoplasm and nucleoplasm. The NPC is comprised of approximately 30 distinct proteins collectively known as nucleoporins. Nucleoporins are pore-complex-specific glycoproteins which often have cytoplasmically oriented O-linked N-acetylglucosamine residues and numerous repeats of the pentapeptide sequence XFXFG. However, the nucleoporin protein encoded by this gene does not contain the typical FG repeat sequences found in most vertebrate nucleoporins. This nucleoporin is thought to form part of the scaffold for the central channel of the nuclear pore. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000128595	 The product of this gene is a calcium-binding protein localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and it is involved in such ER functions as protein folding and sorting. This protein belongs to a family of multiple EF-hand proteins (CERC) that include reticulocalbin, ERC-55, and Cab45 and the product of this gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000010322	 This gene encodes a nonadrenergic imidazoline-1 receptor protein that localizes to the cytosol and anchors to the inner layer of the plasma membrane. The orthologous mouse protein has been shown to influence cytoskeletal organization and cell migration by binding to alpha-5-beta-1 integrin. In humans, this protein has been shown to bind to the adapter insulin receptor substrate 4 (IRS4) to mediate translocation of alpha-5 integrin from the cell membrane to endosomes. Expression of this protein was reduced in human breast cancers while its overexpression reduced tumor growth and metastasis; possibly by limiting the expression of alpha-5 integrin. In human cardiac tissue, this gene was found to affect cell growth and death while in neural tissue it affected neuronal growth and differentiation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding differerent isoforms. Some isoforms lack the expected C-terminal domains of a functional imidazoline receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000141452	 This gene encodes a colon cancer associated protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000015133	 This gene encodes a ubiquitously expressed coiled-coil domain-containing protein that interacts with the dishevelled protein and is a negative regulator of the Wnt signalling pathway. The protein encoded by this gene has a PDZ-domain binding motif in its C-terminus with which it interacts with the dishevelled protein. Dishevelled is a scaffold protein involved in the regulation of the Wnt signaling pathway. The Wnt signaling pathway plays an important role in embryonic development, tissue maintenance, and cancer progression. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal recessive, primary non-syndromic congenital hydrocephalus; a condition characterized by excessive accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles of the brain. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000168827	 Eukaryotes contain two protein translational systems, one in the cytoplasm and one in the mitochondria. Mitochondrial translation is crucial for maintaining mitochondrial function and mutations in this system lead to a breakdown in the respiratory chain-oxidative phosphorylation system and to impaired maintenance of mitochondrial DNA. This gene encodes one of the mitochondrial translation elongation factors. Its role in the regulation of normal mitochondrial function and in different disease states attributed to mitochondrial dysfunction is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000129993	 This gene encodes a member of the myeloid translocation gene family which interact with DNA-bound transcription factors and recruit a range of corepressors to facilitate transcriptional repression. The t(16;21)(q24;q22) translocation is one of the less common karyotypic abnormalities in acute myeloid leukemia. The translocation produces a chimeric gene made up of the 5'-region of the runt-related transcription factor 1 gene fused to the 3'-region of this gene. This gene is also a putative breast tumor suppressor. Alternative splicing results in transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000157110	 This gene encodes a member of the RRM family of RNA-binding proteins. The RRM domain is between 80-100 amino acids in length and family members contain one to four copies of the domain. The RRM domain consists of two short stretches of conserved sequence called RNP1 and RNP2, as well as a few highly conserved hydrophobic residues. The protein encoded by this gene has a single, putative RRM domain in its N-terminus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000135164	 This gene encodes a transcription factor that contains a cyclin D-binding domain, three central Myb-like repeats, and two flanking acidic transactivation domains at the N- and C-termini. The encoded protein is induced by the oncogenic Ras signaling pathway and functions as a tumor suppressor by activating the transcription of ARF and thus the ARF-p53 pathway to arrest cell growth or induce apoptosis. It also activates the transcription of aminopeptidase N and may play a role in hematopoietic cell differentiation. The transcriptional activity of this protein is regulated by binding of D-cyclins. This gene is hemizygously deleted in approximately 40% of human non-small-cell lung cancer and is a potential prognostic and gene-therapy target for non-small-cell lung cancer. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]. 
ENSG00000087495	 The protein encoded by this gene is associated with the nuclear scaffold in proliferating cells. It was found to bind to the catalytic subunit of protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) and inhibit PP1 activity, suggesting that this protein may function as a regulatory subunit of PP1. Alternative splicing at this locus results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000213523	 Both long non-coding and protein-coding RNAs are transcribed from this gene, and they represent alternatively spliced transcript variants. This gene was initially defined as a non-coding RNA, which is a coactivator for several nuclear receptors (NRs) and is associated with breast cancer. It has now been found that this gene is involved in the regulation of many NR and non-NR activities, including metabolism, adipogenesis and chromatin organization. The long non-coding RNA transcripts interact with a variety of proteins, including the protein encoded by this gene. The encoded protein acts as a transcriptional repressor by binding to the non-coding RNA. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000126457	 This gene encodes a member of the protein arginine N-methyltransferase (PRMT) family. Post-translational modification of target proteins by PRMTs plays an important regulatory role in many biological processes, whereby PRMTs methylate arginine residues by transferring methyl groups from S-adenosyl-L-methionine to terminal guanidino nitrogen atoms. The encoded protein is a type I PRMT and is responsible for the majority of cellular arginine methylation activity. Increased expression of this gene may play a role in many types of cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 5. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000169884	 The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. It may be involved in breast cancer, and its protein signaling is likely a molecular switch that governs adipogenesis. This protein is 96% identical to the mouse Wnt10b protein at the amino acid level. This gene is clustered with another family member, WNT1, in the chromosome 12q13 region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000056558	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF receptor (TNFR) associated factor (TRAF) protein family. TRAF proteins associate with, and mediate the signal transduction from various receptors of the TNFR superfamily. This protein and TRAF2 form a heterodimeric complex, which is required for TNF-alpha-mediated activation of MAPK8/JNK and NF-kappaB. The protein complex formed by this protein and TRAF2 also interacts with inhibitor-of-apoptosis proteins (IAPs), and thus mediates the anti-apoptotic signals from TNF receptors. The expression of this protein can be induced by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). EBV infection membrane protein 1 (LMP1) is found to interact with this and other TRAF proteins; this interaction is thought to link LMP1-mediated B lymphocyte transformation to the signal transduction from TNFR family receptors. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000129514	 This gene encodes a member of the forkhead class of DNA-binding proteins. These hepatocyte nuclear factors are transcriptional activators for liver-specific transcripts such as albumin and transthyretin, and they also interact with chromatin. Similar family members in mice have roles in the regulation of metabolism and in the differentiation of the pancreas and liver. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000176782	 Defensins form a family of microbicidal and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Defensins are short, processed peptide molecules that are classified by structure into three groups: alpha-defensins, beta-defensins and theta-defensins. All beta-defensin genes are densely clustered in four to five syntenic chromosomal regions. Chromosome 8p23 contains at least two copies of the duplicated beta-defensin cluster. This duplication results in two identical copies of defensin, beta 104, DEFB104A and DEFB104B, in head-to-head orientation. This gene, DEFB104A, represents the more centromeric copy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168811	 This gene encodes a subunit of a cytokine that acts on T and natural killer cells, and has a broad array of biological activities. The cytokine is a disulfide-linked heterodimer composed of the 35-kD subunit encoded by this gene, and a 40-kD subunit that is a member of the cytokine receptor family. This cytokine is required for the T-cell-independent induction of interferon (IFN)-gamma, and is important for the differentiation of both Th1 and Th2 cells. The responses of lymphocytes to this cytokine are mediated by the activator of transcription protein STAT4. Nitric oxide synthase 2A (NOS2A/NOS2) is found to be required for the signaling process of this cytokine in innate immunity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000150656	 This gene encodes a member of the M20 metalloprotease family. The encoded protein is specifically expressed in the brain, is a homodimeric dipeptidase which was identified as human carnosinase. This gene contains trinucleotide (CTG) repeat length polymorphism in the coding region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000164400	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of granulocytes and macrophages. The active form of the protein is found extracellularly as a homodimer. This gene has been localized to a cluster of related genes at chromosome region 5q31, which is known to be associated with interstitial deletions in the 5q- syndrome and acute myelogenous leukemia. Other genes in the cluster include those encoding interleukins 4, 5, and 13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131174	 Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes subunit VIIb, which is highly similar to bovine COX VIIb protein and is found in all tissues. This gene may have several pseudogenes on chromosomes 1, 2, 20 and 22. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000123364	 This gene belongs to the homeobox family of genes. The homeobox genes encode a highly conserved family of transcription factors that play an important role in morphogenesis in all multicellular organisms. Mammals possess four similar homeobox gene clusters, HOXA, HOXB, HOXC and HOXD, which are located on different chromosomes and consist of 9 to 11 genes arranged in tandem. This gene is one of several homeobox HOXC genes located in a cluster on chromosome 12. The product of this gene may play a role in the development of hair, nail, and filiform papilla. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000141012	 This gene encodes N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase which is a lysosomal exohydrolase required for the degradation of the glycosaminoglycans, keratan sulfate, and chondroitin 6-sulfate. Sequence alterations including point, missense and nonsense mutations, as well as those that affect splicing, result in a deficiency of this enzyme. Deficiencies of this enzyme lead to Morquio A syndrome, a lysosomal storage disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000092529	 Calpain, a heterodimer consisting of a large and a small subunit, is a major intracellular protease, although its function has not been well established. This gene encodes a muscle-specific member of the calpain large subunit family that specifically binds to titin. Mutations in this gene are associated with limb-girdle muscular dystrophies type 2A. Alternate promoters and alternative splicing result in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms and some variants are ubiquitously expressed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000127954	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the STEAP (six transmembrane epithelial antigen of prostate) family, and resides in the golgi apparatus. It functions as a metalloreductase that has the ability to reduce both Fe(3+) to Fe(2+) and Cu(2+) to Cu(1+), using NAD(+) as acceptor. Studies in mice and human suggest that this gene maybe involved in adipocyte development and metabolism, and may contribute to the normal biology of the prostate cell, as well as prostate cancer progression. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]. 
ENSG00000175595	 The protein encoded by this gene forms a complex with ERCC1 and is involved in the 5' incision made during nucleotide excision repair. This complex is a structure specific DNA repair endonuclease that interacts with EME1. Defects in this gene are a cause of xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group F (XP-F), or xeroderma pigmentosum VI (XP6).[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000157483	 This gene encodes a member of the nonmuscle class I myosins which are a subgroup of the unconventional myosin protein family. The unconventional myosin proteins function as actin-based molecular motors. Class I myosins are characterized by a head (motor) domain, a regulatory domain and a either a short or long tail domain. Among the class I myosins, this protein is distinguished by a long tail domain that is involved in crosslinking actin filaments. This protein localizes to the cytoplasm and may be involved in intracellular movement and membrane trafficking. Mutations in this gene are the cause of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis-6. This gene has been referred to as myosin IC in the literature but is distinct from the myosin IC gene located on chromosome 17. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000127666	 This gene encodes an adaptor protein containing a Toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) homology domain, which is an intracellular signaling domain that mediates protein-protein interactions between the Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and signal-transduction components. This protein is involved in native immunity against invading pathogens. It specifically interacts with toll-like receptor 3, but not with other TLRs, and this association mediates dsRNA induction of interferon-beta through activation of nuclear factor kappa-B, during an antiviral immune response. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000139193	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor is required for generation and long-term maintenance of T cell immunity. It binds to ligand CD70, and plays a key role in regulating B-cell activation and immunoglobulin synthesis. This receptor transduces signals that lead to the activation of NF-kappaB and MAPK8/JNK. Adaptor proteins TRAF2 and TRAF5 have been shown to mediate the signaling process of this receptor. CD27-binding protein (SIVA), a proapoptotic protein, can bind to this receptor and is thought to play an important role in the apoptosis induced by this receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126231	 This gene encodes a liver vitamin K-dependent glycoprotein that is synthesized in the liver and secreted into the plasma. The encoded protein plays a role in regulating blood coagulation by complexing with protein Z-dependent protease inhibitor to directly inhibit activated factor X at the phospholipid surface. Deficiencies in this protein are associated with an increased risk of ischemic arterial diseases and fetal loss. Mutations in this gene are the cause of protein Z deficiency. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000114251	 The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene encodes a member of the WNT family that signals through both the canonical and non-canonical WNT pathways. This protein is a ligand for the seven transmembrane receptor frizzled-5 and the tyrosine kinase orphan receptor 2. This protein plays an essential role in regulating developmental pathways during embryogenesis. This protein may also play a role in oncogenesis. Mutations in this gene are the cause of autosomal dominant Robinow syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000105327	 This gene encodes a member of the BCL-2 family of proteins. This family member belongs to the BH3-only pro-apoptotic subclass. The protein cooperates with direct activator proteins to induce mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization and apoptosis. It can bind to anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 family members to induce mitochondrial dysfunction and caspase activation. Because of its pro-apoptotic role, this gene is a potential drug target for cancer therapy and for tissue injury. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000165282	 This gene encodes a protein that is involved in glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchor biosynthesis. The GPI-anchor is a glycolipid which contains three mannose molecules in its core backbone. The GPI-anchor is found on many blood cells and serves to anchor proteins to the cell surface. This protein is involved in the transfer of ethanolaminephosphate (EtNP) to the third mannose in GPI. At least three alternatively spliced transcripts encoding two distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000102103	 This gene encodes a nuclear polyglutamine-binding protein that is involved with transcription activation. The encoded protein contains a WW domain. Mutations in this gene have been found in patients with Renpenning syndrome 1 and other syndromes with X-linked mental retardation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000126768	 This gene encodes a protein that is part of the mitochondrial transport TIMM23 complex. TIM translocase complexes facilitate the transport of mitochondrial proteins from the cytosol across the mitochondrial inner membrane and into the mitochondrion. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]. 
ENSG00000067066	 This gene encodes a subnuclear organelle and major component of the PML (promyelocytic leukemia)-SP100 nuclear bodies. PML and SP100 are covalently modified by the SUMO-1 modifier, which is considered crucial to nuclear body interactions. The encoded protein binds heterochromatin proteins and is thought to play a role in tumorigenesis, immunity, and gene regulation. Alternatively spliced variants have been identified for this gene; one of which encodes a high-mobility group protein. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000012504	 This gene encodes a ligand-activated transcription factor, which shares structural features in common with nuclear hormone receptor family, such as a DNA-binding domain that targets the receptor to specific DNA sequences, and a ligand-binding domain, which interacts directly with the ligand and contains a ligand-dependent transcriptional activation domain. This protein functions as a receptor for bile acids, and when bound to bile acids, regulates the expression of genes involved in bile acid synthesis and transport. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000189337	 This gene encodes a protein that plays a role in desmosome assembly, cell adhesion, cytoskeletal organization, and epidermal differentiation. This protein co-localizes with desmoplakin and the cytolinker protein periplakin. In general, this protein localizes to the nucleus, desmosomes, cell membrane, and cortical actin-based structures. Some isoforms of this protein also associate with microtubules. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional splice variants have been described but their biological validity has not been verified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000198160	 This gene encodes a protein that was first identified in Xenopus laevis by its role in a mesoderm induction early response (MIER). In human, this gene functions as a growth-factor-induced immediate early gene that encodes a transcriptional regulator. Depending on the cellular context, this gene can function as both an activator and repressor of gene transcription. Alternative splicing results in multiple isoforms; some of which contain a nuclear localization signal. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000148337	 The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger DNA binding protein that interacts with CIP1, part of a complex with cyclin E. The encoded protein may regulate the cellular localization of CIP1. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000005206	 This gene encodes a member of the GXGD family of aspartic proteases. The GXGD proteases are transmembrane proteins with two conserved catalytic motifs localized within the membrane-spanning regions. This enzyme localizes to endosomes, lysosomes, and the plasma membrane. It cleaves the transmembrane domain of tumor necrosis factor alpha to release the intracellular domain, which triggers cytokine expression in the innate and adaptive immunity pathways. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167962	 Zinc-finger proteins bind nucleic acids and play important roles in various cellular functions, including cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. This protein and Grb10-interacting GYF protein 2 have been identified as a components of the mammalian 4EHP (m4EHP) complex. The complex is thought to function as a translation repressor in embryonic development. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]. 
ENSG00000106511	 This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of non-clustered, diverged, antennapedia-like homeobox-containing genes. The encoded protein may play a role in the regulation of vertebrate limb myogenesis. Mutations in the related mouse protein may be associated with craniofacial and/or skeletal abnormalities, in addition to neurovascular dysfunction observed in Alzheimer's disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000115718	 This gene encodes a vitamin K-dependent plasma glycoprotein. The encoded protein is cleaved to its activated form by the thrombin-thrombomodulin complex. This activated form contains a serine protease domain and functions in degradation of the activated forms of coagulation factors V and VIII. Mutations in this gene have been associated with thrombophilia due to protein C deficiency, neonatal purpura fulminans, and recurrent venous thrombosis.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000073578	 This gene encodes a major catalytic subunit of succinate-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, a complex of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The complex is composed of four nuclear-encoded subunits and is localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a form of mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency known as Leigh Syndrome. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 3q29. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000126945	 This gene belongs to the subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are RNA binding proteins and they complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA). These proteins are associated with pre-mRNAs in the nucleus and appear to influence pre-mRNA processing and other aspects of mRNA metabolism and transport. While all of the hnRNPs are present in the nucleus some seem to shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The hnRNP proteins have distinct nucleic acid binding properties. The protein encoded by this gene has three repeats of quasi-RRM domains that binds to RNAs. It is very similar to the family member HNRPH1. This gene is thought to be involved in Fabray disease and X-linked agammaglobulinemia phenotype. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. Read-through transcription between this locus and the ribosomal protein L36a gene has been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000090581	 This gene encodes the gamma sunbunit of the N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase complex. This hexameric complex, composed of alpha, beta and gamma subunits, catalyzes the first step in synthesis of a mannose 6-phosphate lysosomal recognition marker. This enzyme complex is necessary for targeting of lysosomal hydrolases to the lysosome. Mutations in the gene encoding the gamma subunit have been associated with mucolipidosis IIIC, also known as mucolipidosis III gamma.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000102309	 This gene encodes a member of the parvulin subfamily of the peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase protein family. The encoded protein catalyzes the isomerization of peptidylprolyl bonds, and may play a role in the cell cycle, chromatin remodeling, and/or ribosome biogenesis. The encoded protein may play an additional role in the mitochondria. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]. 
ENSG00000204370	 This gene encodes a member of complex II of the respiratory chain, which is responsible for the oxidation of succinate. The encoded protein is one of two integral membrane proteins anchoring the complex to the matrix side of the mitochondrial inner membrane. Mutations in this gene are associated with the formation of tumors, including hereditary paraganglioma. Transmission of disease occurs almost exclusively through the paternal allele, suggesting that this locus may be maternally imprinted. There are pseudogenes for this gene on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 7, and 18. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000065923	 This gene encodes a sodium and potassium/ proton antiporter that is a member of the solute carrier family 9 protein family. The encoded protein is primarily localized to the trans-Golgi network and is involved in maintaining pH homeostasis in organelles along the secretory and endocytic pathways. This protein may enhance cell growth of certain breast tumors. This gene is part of a gene cluster on chromosome Xp11.23. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 12. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000144115	 This gene encodes a threonine synthase-like protein. A similar enzyme in mouse can catalyze the degradation of O-phospho-homoserine to a-ketobutyrate, phosphate, and ammonia. This protein also has phospho-lyase activity on both gamma and beta phosphorylated substrates. In mouse an alternatively spliced form of this protein has been shown to act as a cytokine and can induce the production of the inflammatory cytokine IL6 in osteoblasts. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000114686	 Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein that belongs to the L3P ribosomal protein family. A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 13q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000172572	 This gene encodes a member of the cGMP-inhibited cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (cGI-PDE) family. cGI-PDE enzymes hydrolyze both cAMP and cGMP, and play critical roles in many cellular processes by regulating the amplitude and duration of intracellular cyclic nucleotide signals. The encoded protein mediates platelet aggregation and also plays important roles in cardiovascular function by regulating vascular smooth muscle contraction and relaxation. Inhibitors of the encoded protein may be effective in treating congestive heart failure. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000169087	 This gene encodes a protein that binds to one of the small heat shock proteins, specifically hsp27. Hsp27 is involved with cell growth and differentiation. This encoded protein was found to be abnormally expressed in patients with intractable epilepsy, although how brain function is affected remains unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000160679	 This gene encodes a small nuclear protein that is characterized by a arginine and glycine rich region. The encoded protein may be involved in cell cycle progression. This protein interacts with protein arginine methyltransferases and plays a role in the activation of estradiol-dependent transcription. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000172456	 This gene encodes a member of the FGGY kinase family which acts as a phosphotransferase. Some GWAS studies have found an association with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients, yet other GWAS studies have not found any association. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000083844	 This gene encodes a zinc finger protein and belongs to the krueppel C2H2-type zinc-finger protein family. Zinc finger proteins are often localized in the nucleus, bind nucleic acids, and regulate transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000169554	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Zfh1 family of 2-handed zinc finger/homeodomain proteins. It is located in the nucleus and functions as a DNA-binding transcriptional repressor that interacts with activated SMADs. Mutations in this gene are associated with Hirschsprung disease/Mowat-Wilson syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000160957	 The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA helicase that belongs to the RecQ helicase family. DNA helicases unwind double-stranded DNA into single-stranded DNAs and may modulate chromosome segregation. This gene is predominantly expressed in thymus and testis. Mutations in this gene are associated with Rothmund-Thomson, RAPADILINO and Baller-Gerold syndromes. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000101977	 The oncogenic protein encoded by this gene is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) that exerts control over some members of the Rho family of small GTPases. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. These isoforms exhibit different expression patterns and varying levels of GEF activity.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000064601	 This gene encodes a glycoprotein which associates with lysosomal enzymes beta-galactosidase and neuraminidase to form a complex of high molecular weight multimers. The formation of this complex provides a protective role for stability and activity. Deficiencies in this gene are linked to multiple forms of galactosialidosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000108946	 cAMP is a signaling molecule important for a variety of cellular functions. cAMP exerts its effects by activating the cAMP-dependent protein kinase, which transduces the signal through phosphorylation of different target proteins. The inactive kinase holoenzyme is a tetramer composed of two regulatory and two catalytic subunits. cAMP causes the dissociation of the inactive holoenzyme into a dimer of regulatory subunits bound to four cAMP and two free monomeric catalytic subunits. Four different regulatory subunits and three catalytic subunits have been identified in humans. This gene encodes one of the regulatory subunits. This protein was found to be a tissue-specific extinguisher that down-regulates the expression of seven liver genes in hepatoma x fibroblast hybrids. Mutations in this gene cause Carney complex (CNC). This gene can fuse to the RET protooncogene by gene rearrangement and form the thyroid tumor-specific chimeric oncogene known as PTC2. A nonconventional nuclear localization sequence (NLS) has been found for this protein which suggests a role in DNA replication via the protein serving as a nuclear transport protein for the second subunit of the Replication Factor C (RFC40). Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000174469	 This gene encodes a member of the neurexin family which functions in the vertebrate nervous system as cell adhesion molecules and receptors. This protein, like other neurexin proteins, contains epidermal growth factor repeats and laminin G domains. In addition, it includes an F5/8 type C domain, discoidin/neuropilin- and fibrinogen-like domains, thrombospondin N-terminal-like domains and a putative PDZ binding site. This protein is localized at the juxtaparanodes of myelinated axons, and mediates interactions between neurons and glia during nervous system development and is also involved in localization of potassium channels within differentiating axons. This gene encompasses almost 1.5% of chromosome 7 and is one of the largest genes in the human genome. It is directly bound and regulated by forkhead box protein P2 (FOXP2), a transcription factor related to speech and language development. This gene has been implicated in multiple neurodevelopmental disorders, including Gilles de la Tourette syndrome, schizophrenia, epilepsy, autism, ADHD and mental retardation.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000109846	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Alpha crystallins are composed of two gene products: alpha-A and alpha-B, for acidic and basic, respectively. Alpha crystallins can be induced by heat shock and are members of the small heat shock protein (sHSP also known as the HSP20) family. They act as molecular chaperones although they do not renature proteins and release them in the fashion of a true chaperone; instead they hold them in large soluble aggregates. Post-translational modifications decrease the ability to chaperone. These heterogeneous aggregates consist of 30-40 subunits; the alpha-A and alpha-B subunits have a 3:1 ratio, respectively. Two additional functions of alpha crystallins are an autokinase activity and participation in the intracellular architecture. Alpha-A and alpha-B gene products are differentially expressed; alpha-A is preferentially restricted to the lens and alpha-B is expressed widely in many tissues and organs. Elevated expression of alpha-B crystallin occurs in many neurological diseases; a missense mutation cosegregated in a family with a desmin-related myopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000213139	 Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Gamma-crystallins are a homogeneous group of highly symmetrical, monomeric proteins typically lacking connecting peptides and terminal extensions. They are differentially regulated after early development. This gene encodes a protein initially considered to be a beta-crystallin but the encoded protein is monomeric and has greater sequence similarity to other gamma-crystallins. This gene encodes the most significant gamma-crystallin in adult eye lens tissue. Whether due to aging or mutations in specific genes, gamma-crystallins have been involved in cataract formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000132549	 This gene encodes a potential transmembrane protein that may function in vesicle-mediated transport and sorting of proteins within the cell. This protein may play a role in the development and the function of the eye, hematological system, and central nervous system. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Cohen syndrome. Multiple splice variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000073584	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of the large ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complex SWI/SNF, which is required for transcriptional activation of genes normally repressed by chromatin. The encoded protein, either alone or when in the SWI/SNF complex, can bind to 4-way junction DNA, which is thought to mimic the topology of DNA as it enters or exits the nucleosome. The protein contains a DNA-binding HMG domain, but disruption of this domain does not abolish the DNA-binding or nucleosome-displacement activities of the SWI/SNF complex. Unlike most of the SWI/SNF complex proteins, this protein has no yeast counterpart. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000168575	 This gene encodes a member of the inorganic phosphate transporter family. The encoded protein is a type 3 sodium-dependent phosphate symporter that plays an important role in phosphate homeostasis by mediating cellular phosphate uptake. The encoded protein also confers susceptibility to viral infection as a gamma-retroviral receptor. Mutations in this gene may play a role in familial idiopathic basal ganglia calcification. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000128159	 The protein encoded by this gene is part of a large multisubunit complex required for microtubule nucleation at the centrosome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106009	 The protein encoded by this ubiquitously expressed gene interacts with the tumor suppressing BRCA1 (breast cancer 1) protein and and the ATM (ataxia telangiectasia mutated) protein. ATM is thought to be a master controller of cell cycle checkpoint signalling pathways that are required for cellular responses to DNA damage such as double-strand breaks that are induced by ionizing radiation and complexes with BRCA1 in the multi-protein complex BASC (BRAC1-associated genome surveillance complex). The protein encoded by this gene is thought to play a role in the DNA damage pathway regulated by BRCA1 and ATM. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000006283	 Voltage-sensitive calcium channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells, and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division, and cell death. This gene encodes a T-type, low-voltage activated calcium channel. The T-type channels generate currents that are both transient, owing to fast inactivation, and tiny, owing to small conductance. T-type channels are thought to be involved in pacemaker activity, low-threshold calcium spikes, neuronal oscillations and resonance, and rebound burst firing. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000170122	 This gene encodes a member of the forkhead/winged helix-box (FOX) family of transcription factors. FOX transcription factors play critical roles in the regulation of multiple processes including metabolism, cell proliferation and gene expression during ontogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with a complex phenotype consisting of dilated cardiomyopathy, obsessive-compulsive disorders, and suicidality. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000106477	 This gene encodes a centrosomal and microtubule-binding protein which is predicted to have two coiled-coil domains and a rhodanese domain. In human retinal pigment epithelial cells the protein localized to centrioles and cilia. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Joubert Syndrome 15; an autosomal recessive ciliopathy and neurological disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000036257	 This gene encodes a member of the cullin protein family. The encoded protein plays a critical role in the polyubiquitination and subsequent degradation of specific protein substrates as the core component and scaffold protein of an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. Complexes including the encoded protein may also play a role in late endosome maturation. Mutations in this gene are a cause of type 2E pseudohypoaldosteronism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000167588	 This gene encodes a member of the NAD-dependent glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase family. The encoded protein plays a critical role in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism by catalyzing the reversible conversion of dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) and reduced nicotine adenine dinucleotide (NADH) to glycerol-3-phosphate (G3P) and NAD+. The encoded cytosolic protein and mitochondrial glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase also form a glycerol phosphate shuttle that facilitates the transfer of reducing equivalents from the cytosol to mitochondria. Mutations in this gene are a cause of transient infantile hypertriglyceridemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000111012	 This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the inner mitochondrial membrane where it hydroxylates 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 at the 1alpha position. This reaction synthesizes 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, the active form of vitamin D3, which binds to the vitamin D receptor and regulates calcium metabolism. Thus this enzyme regulates the level of biologically active vitamin D and plays an important role in calcium homeostasis. Mutations in this gene can result in vitamin D-dependent rickets type I. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000086205	 This gene encodes a type II transmembrane glycoprotein belonging to the M28 peptidase family. The protein acts as a glutamate carboxypeptidase on different alternative substrates, including the nutrient folate and the neuropeptide N-acetyl-l-aspartyl-l-glutamate and is expressed in a number of tissues such as prostate, central and peripheral nervous system and kidney. A mutation in this gene may be associated with impaired intestinal absorption of dietary folates, resulting in low blood folate levels and consequent hyperhomocysteinemia. Expression of this protein in the brain may be involved in a number of pathological conditions associated with glutamate excitotoxicity. In the prostate the protein is up-regulated in cancerous cells and is used as an effective diagnostic and prognostic indicator of prostate cancer. This gene likely arose from a duplication event of a nearby chromosomal region. Alternative splicing gives rise to multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000197579	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein which is serine and arginine rich, and contains a RING-type zinc finger domain. It is highly expressed in the testis, and functions as an ubiquitin-protein E3 ligase. Mutations in this gene are associated with retinitis pigmentosa type 31. Alternatively spliced transcript variants, encoding different isoforms, have been observed for this locus. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000173253	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the DMRT gene family, sharing a DM DNA-binding domain with Drosophila 'doublesex' (dsx) and C. elegans mab3, genes involved in sex determination in these organisms. Also, this gene is located in a region of the human genome (chromosome 9p24.3) associated with gonadal dysgenesis and XY sex reversal. Hence this gene is one of the candidates for sex-determining gene(s) on chr 9. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000167114	 This gene encodes a member of a family of fatty acid transport proteins, which are involved in translocation of long-chain fatty acids cross the plasma membrane. This protein is expressed at high levels on the apical side of mature enterocytes in the small intestine, and appears to be the principal fatty acid transporter in enterocytes. Clinical studies suggest this gene as a candidate gene for the insulin resistance syndrome. Mutations in this gene have been associated with ichthyosis prematurity syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000100347	 This gene encodes a component of the Sorting and Assembly Machinery (SAM) of the mitochondrial outer membrane. The Sam complex functions in the assembly of beta-barrel proteins into the outer mitochondrial membrane.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000159307	 This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein that is a member of the SCUBE (signal peptide, CUB domain, EGF (epidermal growth factor)-like protein) family. Family members have an amino-terminal signal peptide, nine copies of EGF-like repeats and a CUB domain at the carboxyl terminus. This protein is expressed in platelets and endothelial cells and may play an important role in vascular biology. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000123136	 This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. These proteins are characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD) and are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure, such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of the DEAD box protein family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000006555	 This gene encodes a protein with seven tetratricopeptide (TPR) repeats. Tetratricopeptide repeat containing motifs are found in a variety of proteins and may mediate protein-protein interactions and chaperone activity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000079385	 This gene encodes a member of the carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) gene family, which belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily. Two subgroups of the CEA family, the CEA cell adhesion molecules and the pregnancy-specific glycoproteins, are located within a 1.2 Mb cluster on the long arm of chromosome 19. Eleven pseudogenes of the CEA cell adhesion molecule subgroup are also found in the cluster. The encoded protein was originally described in bile ducts of liver as biliary glycoprotein. Subsequently, it was found to be a cell-cell adhesion molecule detected on leukocytes, epithelia, and endothelia. The encoded protein mediates cell adhesion via homophilic as well as heterophilic binding to other proteins of the subgroup. Multiple cellular activities have been attributed to the encoded protein, including roles in the differentiation and arrangement of tissue three-dimensional structure, angiogenesis, apoptosis, tumor suppression, metastasis, and the modulation of innate and adaptive immune responses. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been reported, but the full-length nature of all variants has not been defined. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000148848	 This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease) protein family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. This gene has two alternatively spliced transcripts: a shorter secreted form and a longer membrane-bound form. The shorter form is found to stimulate myogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000102053	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of CCCH-type zinc finger proteins that are involved in the proinflammatory activation of macrophages. The exact function of this family member is unknown, but it is thought to function as a ribonuclease. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000243725	 This gene encodes a protein that contains tetratricopeptide (TPR) repeats. The 34-amino acid tetratricopeptide repeat motifs are found in a variety of proteins and may mediate protein-protein interactions and chaperone activity.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000118503	 This gene was identified as a gene whose expression is rapidly induced by the tumor necrosis factor (TNF). The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger protein and ubiqitin-editing enzyme, and has been shown to inhibit NF-kappa B activation as well as TNF-mediated apoptosis. The encoded protein, which has both ubiquitin ligase and deubiquitinase activities, is involved in the cytokine-mediated immune and inflammatory responses. Several transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000116299	 Expression of this gene is induced by estrogen and the encoded protein has been characterized as a transmembrane protein. The encoded protein has been found in to correlate with survival in certain carcinomas (PMID: 21102415) and may be important for cellular response to stress (PMID: 21072319). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000162641	 This gene encodes a protein which contains a domain found in an AT-hook-containing transcription factor. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000147316	 This gene encodes a DNA damage response protein. The encoded protein may play a role in G2/M checkpoint arrest via maintenance of inhibitory phosphorylation of cyclin-dependent kinase 1. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary autosomal recessive microcephaly 1 and premature chromosome condensation syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000156873	 Phosphorylase kinase is a polymer of 16 subunits, four each of alpha, beta, gamma and delta. The alpha subunit includes the skeletal muscle and hepatic isoforms, encoded by two different genes. The beta subunit is the same in both the muscle and hepatic isoforms, and encoded by one gene. The gamma subunit also includes the skeletal muscle and hepatic isoforms, and the hepatic isoform is encoded by this gene. The delta subunit is a calmodulin and can be encoded by three different genes. The gamma subunits contain the active site of the enzyme, whereas the alpha and beta subunits have regulatory functions controlled by phosphorylation. The delta subunit mediates the dependence of the enzyme on calcium concentration. Mutations in this gene cause glycogen storage disease type 9C, also known as autosomal liver glycogenosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000140479	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family. The members of this family are proprotein convertases that process latent precursor proteins into their biologically active products. This encoded protein is a calcium-dependent serine endoprotease that can cleave precursor protein at their paired basic amino acid processing sites. Some of its substrates are - transforming growth factor beta related proteins, proalbumin, and von Willebrand factor. This gene is thought to play a role in tumor progression. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000184156	 The M channel is a slowly activating and deactivating potassium channel that plays a critical role in the regulation of neuronal excitability. The M channel is formed by the association of the protein encoded by this gene and one of two related proteins encoded by the KCNQ2 and KCNQ5 genes, both integral membrane proteins. M channel currents are inhibited by M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and activated by retigabine, a novel anti-convulsant drug. Defects in this gene are a cause of benign familial neonatal convulsions type 2 (BFNC2), also known as epilepsy, benign neonatal type 2 (EBN2). Two variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000111837	 The product of this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinase related to kinases involved in cell cycle regulation. It is expressed almost exclusively in the testis, primarily in germ cells. Studies of the mouse and rat homologs have localized the kinase to the chromosomes during meiosis in spermatogenesis, specifically to the synaptonemal complex that exists while homologous chromosomes are paired. There is, however, a study of the mouse homolog that has identified high levels of expression in developing sensory epithelia so its function may be more generalized. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000175344	 The nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are members of a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that mediate fast signal transmission at synapses. The nAChRs are thought to be hetero-pentamers composed of homologous subunits. The proposed structure for each subunit is a conserved N-terminal extracellular domain followed by three conserved transmembrane domains, a variable cytoplasmic loop, a fourth conserved transmembrane domain, and a short C-terminal extracellular region. The protein encoded by this gene forms a homo-oligomeric channel, displays marked permeability to calcium ions and is a major component of brain nicotinic receptors that are blocked by, and highly sensitive to, alpha-bungarotoxin. Once this receptor binds acetylcholine, it undergoes an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. This gene is located in a region identified as a major susceptibility locus for juvenile myoclonic epilepsy and a chromosomal location involved in the genetic transmission of schizophrenia. An evolutionarily recent partial duplication event in this region results in a hybrid containing sequence from this gene and a novel FAM7A gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record was created from transcript and genomic sequence data to make the sequence consistent with the reference genome assembly. The genomic coordinates used for the transcript record were based on transcript alignments. 
ENSG00000060971	 This gene encodes an enzyme operative in the beta-oxidation system of the peroxisomes. Deficiency of this enzyme leads to pseudo-Zellweger syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187955	 This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XIV collagen, a member of the FACIT (fibril-associated collagens with interrupted triple helices) collagen family. Type XIV collagen interacts with the fibril surface and is involved in the regulation of fibrillogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000140254	 Dual oxidases DUOX1 and DUOX2 are NADPH oxidases which are involved in hydrogen peroxide production necessary for thyroid hormonogenesis. They form a heterodimer with specific maturation factors DUOXA1 and DUOXA2, respectively, which is essential for the maturation and function of the DUOX enzyme complexes. This gene encodes the DUOX1 activator or maturation factor DUOXA1. Rat studies identified a bidirectional promoter which controls the transcription of the DUOX1 and DUOXA1 genes. This protein is cotransported to the cell surface when coexpressed with DUOX1 and is retained in the endoplasmic reticulum when expressed without DUOX1 protein. The expression of this gene or the DUOX1 gene is not suppressed by thyroglobulin (Tg), a macromolecular precursor in thyroid hormone synthesis, while the expression of the DUOX2 and DUOXA2 are significantly suppressed by the Tg. This protein is also a p53-regulated neurogenic factor involved in p53 dependent neuronal differentiation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000168538	 The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the TRAPP (transport protein particle) tethering complex, which functions in intracellular vesicle trafficking. This subunit is involved in early stage endoplasmic reticulum-to-Golgi vesicle transport. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000247092	 This gene is small nucleolar RNA host gene 10 and represents a non-protein coding RNA. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000164054	 This gene encodes a member of the shisa family. The encoded protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum, and together with p53 induces apoptosis in a caspase-dependent manner. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000130816	 DNA (cytosine-5-)-methyltransferase 1 has a role in the establishment and regulation of tissue-specific patterns of methylated cytosine residues. Aberrant methylation patterns are associated with certain human tumors and developmental abnormalities. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000088538	 This gene is specifically expressed in the central nervous system (CNS). It encodes a member of the DOCK (dedicator of cytokinesis) family of guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs). This protein, dedicator of cytokinesis 3 (DOCK3), is also known as modifier of cell adhesion (MOCA) and presenilin-binding protein (PBP). The DOCK3 and DOCK1, -2 and -4 share several conserved amino acids in their DHR-2 (DOCK homology region 2) domains that are required for GEF activity, and bind directly to WAVE proteins [Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) family Verprolin-homologous proteins] via their DHR-1 domains. The DOCK3 induces axonal outgrowth in CNS by stimulating membrane recruitment of the WAVE complex and activating the small G protein Rac1. This gene is associated with an attention deficit hyperactivity disorder-like phenotype by a complex chromosomal rearrangement. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000205084	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein, which is a component of the B9 complex involved in the formation of the diffusion barrier between the cilia and plasma membrane. Mutations in this gene cause Joubert syndrome (JBTS). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000185666	 This gene is a member of the synapsin gene family. Synapsins encode neuronal phosphoproteins which associate with the cytoplasmic surface of synaptic vesicles. Family members are characterized by common protein domains, and they are implicated in synaptogenesis and the modulation of neurotransmitter release, suggesting a potential role in several neuropsychiatric diseases. The protein encoded by this gene shares the synapsin family domain model, with domains A, C, and E exhibiting the highest degree of conservation. The protein contains a unique domain J, located between domains C and E. Based on this gene's localization to 22q12.3, a possible schizophrenia susceptibility locus, and the established neurobiological roles of the synapsins, this family member may represent a candidate gene for schizophrenia. The TIMP3 gene is located within an intron of this gene and is transcribed in the opposite direction. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple splice variants that encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000146839	 This gene encodes a sperm membrane protein that binds the zona pellucida of the egg in a species-specific manner. The encoded protein may be involved in signaling or gamete recognition. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000091181	 The protein encoded by this gene is an interleukin 5 specific subunit of a heterodimeric cytokine receptor. The receptor is comprised of a ligand specific alpha subunit and a signal transducing beta subunit shared by the receptors for interleukin 3 (IL3), colony stimulating factor 2 (CSF2/GM-CSF), and interleukin 5 (IL5). The binding of this protein to IL5 depends on the beta subunit. The beta subunit is activated by the ligand binding, and is required for the biological activities of IL5. This protein has been found to interact with syndecan binding protein (syntenin), which is required for IL5 mediated activation of the transcription factor SOX4. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding four distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000054356	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP possesses an extracellular region, a single transmembrane region, and a single catalytic domain, and thus represents a receptor-type PTP. This PTP was found to be an autoantigen that is reactive with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) patient sera, and thus may be a potential target of autoimmunity in diabetes mellitus. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000014919	 Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes a protein which is not a structural subunit, but may be essential for the biogenesis of COX formation and may function in the hydroxylation of heme O, according to the yeast mutant studies. This protein is predicted to contain 5 transmembrane domains localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane. Alternative splicing of this gene generates two transcript variants diverging in the 3' region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198380	 This gene encodes the first and rate-limiting enzyme of the hexosamine pathway and controls the flux of glucose into the hexosamine pathway. The product of this gene catalyzes the formation of glucosamine 6-phosphate. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]. 
ENSG00000185002	 The nuclear protein encoded by this gene is a member of the regulatory factor X (RFX) family of transcription factors. Studies in mice suggest that this gene is specifically required for the differentiation of islet cells for the production of insulin, but not for the differentiation of pancreatic polypeptide-producing cells. It regulates the transcription factors involved in beta-cell maturation and function, thus, restricting the expression of the beta-cell differentiation and specification genes. Mutations in this gene are associated with Mitchell-Riley syndrome, which is characterized by neonatal diabetes with pancreatic hypoplasia, duodenal and jejunal atresia, and gall bladder agenesis.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000100324	 The protein encoded by this gene was identified as a regulator of the MAP kinase kinase kinase MAP3K7/TAK1, which is known to mediate various intracellular signaling pathways, such as those induced by TGF beta, interleukin 1, and WNT-1. This protein interacts and thus activates TAK1 kinase. It has been shown that the C-terminal portion of this protein is sufficient for binding and activation of TAK1, while a portion of the N-terminus acts as a dominant-negative inhibitor of TGF beta, suggesting that this protein may function as a mediator between TGF beta receptors and TAK1. This protein can also interact with and activate the mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14/p38alpha), and thus represents an alternative activation pathway, in addition to the MAPKK pathways, which contributes to the biological responses of MAPK14 to various stimuli. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138207	  This protein belongs to the lipocalin family and is the specific carrier for retinol (vitamin A alcohol) in the blood. It delivers retinol from the liver stores to the peripheral tissues. In plasma, the RBP-retinol complex interacts with transthyretin which prevents its loss by filtration through the kidney glomeruli. A deficiency of vitamin A blocks secretion of the binding protein posttranslationally and results in defective delivery and supply to the epidermal cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000185379	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAD51 protein family. RAD51 family members are highly similar to bacterial RecA and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad51, which are known to be involved in the homologous recombination and repair of DNA. This protein forms a complex with several other members of the RAD51 family, including RAD51L1, RAD51L2, and XRCC2. The protein complex formed with this protein has been shown to catalyze homologous pairing between single- and double-stranded DNA, and is thought to play a role in the early stage of recombinational repair of DNA. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the downstream ring finger and FYVE-like domain containing 1 (RFFL) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000151490	 This gene encodes a member of the R3 subtype family of receptor-type protein tyrosine phosphatases. These proteins are localized to the apical surface of polarized cells and may have tissue-specific functions through activation of Src family kinases. This gene contains two distinct promoters, and alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed. The encoded proteins may have multiple isoform-specific and tissue-specific functions, including the regulation of osteoclast production and activity, inhibition of cell proliferation and facilitation of apoptosis. This gene is a candidate tumor suppressor, and decreased expression of this gene has been observed in several types of cancer. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000130414	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the complex I 42kDA subunit family. Mammalian complex I is the first enzyme complex in the electron transport chain of mitochondria. It is composed of 45 different subunits. This protein is a component of the hydrophobic protein fraction and has NADH dehydrogenase activity and oxidoreductase activity. It transfers electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166126	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane protein. It is thought to modulate bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptor function by serving as an accessory or coreceptor, and thus facilitates or hinders BMP binding. It is known that the mouse AMN gene is expressed in the extraembryonic visceral endoderm layer during gastrulation, but it is found to be mutated in amnionless mouse. The encoded protein has sequence similarity to short gastrulation (Sog) and procollagen IIA proteins in Drosophila. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000088367	 Erythrocyte membrane protein band 4.1 (EPB41) is a multifunctional protein that mediates interactions between the erythrocyte cytoskeleton and the overlying plasma membrane. The protein encoded by this gene is a neuronally-enriched protein that is structurally similar to EPB41. The encoded protein binds and stabilizes D2 and D3 dopamine receptors at the neuronal plasma membrane. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000164099	 This gene encodes a member of the trypsin family of serine proteases. Studies in mouse suggest that the encoded enzyme may be involved in structural reorganizations associated with learning and memory. The enzyme is also expressed in Leydig cells in the testis, but its function in this tissue is unknown. Defects in this gene are a cause of mental retardation autosomal recessive type 1 (MRT1). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000128849	 This gene encodes a member of the cingulin family. The encoded protein localizes to both adherens and tight cell-cell junctions and mediates junction assembly and maintenance by regulating the activity of the small GTPases RhoA and Rac1. Heterozygous chromosomal rearrangements resulting in association of the promoter for this gene with the aromatase gene are a cause of aromatase excess syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000180900	 This gene encodes a protein that was identified as being similar to the Drosophila scribble protein. The mammalian protein is involved in tumor suppression pathways. As a scaffold protein involved in cell polarization processes, this protein binds to many other proteins. The encoded protein binds to papillomavirus E6 protein via its PDZ domain and the C-terminus of E6. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000179954	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AC008735.9. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000005108	 The protein encoded by this gene is found almost exclusively in endothelial cells from placenta and umbilical cord. The encoded protein appears to interact with alpha(V)beta(3) integrin and paxillin to inhibit endothelial cell migration and tube formation. This protein may be involved in cytoskeletal organization. Variations in this gene may be associated with low bone mineral density in osteoporosis. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000001036	 This gene encodes a plasma alpha-L-fucosidase, which represents 10-20% of the total cellular fucosidase activity. The protein is a member of the glycosyl hydrolase 29 family, and catalyzes the hydrolysis of the alpha-1,6-linked fucose joined to the reducing-end N-acetylglucosamine of the carbohydrate moieties of glycoproteins. This enzyme is essential for Helicobacter pylori adhesion to human gastric cancer cells. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000132781	 This gene encodes a DNA glycosylase involved in oxidative DNA damage repair. The enzyme excises adenine bases from the DNA backbone at sites where adenine is inappropriately paired with guanine, cytosine, or 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine, a major oxidatively damaged DNA lesion. The protein is localized to the nucleus and mitochondria. Mutations in this gene result in heritable predisposition to colon and stomach cancer. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000004975	 This gene encodes a member of the dishevelled (dsh) protein family. The vertebrate dsh proteins have approximately 40% amino acid sequence similarity with Drosophila dsh. This gene encodes a 90-kD protein that undergoes posttranslational phosphorylation to form a 95-kD cytoplasmic protein, which may play a role in the signal transduction pathway mediated by multiple Wnt proteins. The mechanisms of dishevelled function in Wnt signaling are likely to be conserved among metazoans. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000111321	 This gene encodes a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily. The major ligands of this receptor include lymphotoxin alpha/beta and tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 14. The encoded protein plays a role in signalling during the development of lymphoid and other organs, lipid metabolism, immune response, and programmed cell death. Activity of this receptor has also been linked to carcinogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000110274	 This gene encodes a centrosomal protein involved in microtubule organization, DNA damage response, and chromosome segregation. The encoded protein is required for assembly of primary cilia and localizes to mature centrioles. Defects in this gene are a cause of nephronophthisis-related ciliopathies. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000105429	 The protein encoded by this gene is a single-pass type I membrane protein of unknown function that contains several EGF-like domains, Kelch repeats, and PSI domains. Defects in this gene are a cause of Carpenter syndrome 2. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000155906	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the evolutionary conserved sif2 family of proteins that share the DUF155 domain in common. This protein is thought to be localized in the mitochondria and involved in mitochondrial translation. Mutations in this gene are associated with combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency-11. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000115307	 This gene encodes a protein that contains a domain with homology to the ancient conserved region of the archain 1 gene and a domain that may be involved in binding ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes. The protein encoded by this gene has been shown to bind to the conserved membrane-proximal sequence of the cytoplasmic tail of integrin alpha(IIb) subunits. These subunits play a crucial role in the integrin alpha(IIb)beta(3) inside-out signalling in platelets and megakaryocytes that leads to platelet aggregation and thrombus formation. This gene overlaps the gene for mitochondrial serine protease 25. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000187398	 This gene encodes a leucine zipper protein. This protein is deleted in some patients with Wilms tumor-Aniridia-Genitourinary anomalies-mental Retardation (WAGR) syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000007372	 This gene encodes paired box gene 6, one of many human homologs of the Drosophila melanogaster gene prd. In addition to the hallmark feature of this gene family, a conserved paired box domain, the encoded protein also contains a homeo box domain. Both domains are known to bind DNA and function as regulators of gene transcription. This gene is expressed in the developing nervous system, and in developing eyes. Mutations in this gene are known to cause ocular disorders such as aniridia and Peter's anomaly. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000145936	 MaxiK channels are large conductance, voltage and calcium-sensitive potassium channels which are fundamental to the control of smooth muscle tone and neuronal excitability. MaxiK channels can be formed by 2 subunits: the pore-forming alpha subunit and the product of this gene, the modulatory beta subunit. Intracellular calcium regulates the physical association between the alpha and beta subunits. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000173821	 This gene encodes a protein containing a C3HC4-type RING finger domain, which is a specialized type of Zn-finger that binds two atoms of zinc and is thought to be involved in mediating protein-protein interactions. The protein also contains an AAA domain, which is associated with ATPase activity. This gene is a susceptibility gene for Moyamoya disease, a vascular disorder of intracranial arteries. This gene is also a translocation partner in anaplastic large cell lymphoma and inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor cases, where a t(2;17)(p23;q25) translocation has been identified with the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene on chromosome 2, and a t(8;17)(q24;q25) translocation has been identified with the MYC gene on chromosome 8. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000198055	 This gene encodes a member of the guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptor kinase subfamily of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. The protein phosphorylates the activated forms of G protein-coupled receptors thus initiating their deactivation. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000004776	 This locus encodes a heat shock protein. The encoded protein likely plays a role in smooth muscle relaxation. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000167751	 This gene encodes a member of the grandular kallikrein protein family. Kallikreins are a subgroup of serine proteases that are clustered on chromosome 19. Members of this family are involved in a diverse array of biological functions. The protein encoded by this gene is a highly active trypsin-like serine protease that selectively cleaves at arginine residues. This protein is primarily expressed in prostatic tissue and is responsible for cleaving pro-prostate-specific antigen into its enzymatically active form. This gene is highly expressed in prostate tumor cells and may be a prognostic maker for prostate cancer risk. Alternate splicing results in both coding and non-coding transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000164932	 This locus encodes a protein that may play a role in the cellular response to arterial injury through involvement in vascular remodeling. Mutations at this locus have been associated with Barrett esophagus and esophageal adenocarcinoma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000102030	 N-alpha-acetylation is among the most common post-translational protein modifications in eukaryotic cells. This process involves the transfer of an acetyl group from acetyl-coenzyme A to the alpha-amino group on a nascent polypeptide and is essential for normal cell function. This gene encodes an N-terminal acetyltransferase that functions as the catalytic subunit of the major amino-terminal acetyltransferase A complex. Mutations in this gene are the cause of Ogden syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000118640	 This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that belongs to the synaptobrevin/vesicle-associated membrane protein subfamily of soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors (SNAREs). The encoded protein is involved in the fusion of synaptic vesicles with the presynaptic membrane.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000188770	 Opticin belongs to class III of the small leucine-rich repeat protein (SLRP) family. Members of this family are typically associated with the extracellular matrix. Opticin is present in significant quantities in the vitreous of the eye and also localizes to the cornea, iris, ciliary body, optic nerve, choroid, retina, and fetal liver. Opticin may noncovalently bind collagen fibrils and regulate fibril morphology, spacing, and organization. The opticin gene is mapped to a region of chromosome 1 that is associated with the inherited eye diseases age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and posterior column ataxia with retinosa pigmentosa (AXPC1). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000129214	 This gene encodes a steroid binding protein that was first described as a plasma protein secreted by the liver but is now thought to participate in the regulation of steroid responses. The encoded protein binds each steroid molecule as a dimer formed from identical or nearly identical monomers. The use of alternate promoters and alternatively spliced transcripts have been described. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]. 
ENSG00000177707	 This gene encodes a member of the nectin family of proteins, which function as adhesion molecules at adherens junctions. This family member interacts with other nectin-like proteins and with afadin, a filamentous actin-binding protein involved in the regulation of directional motility, cell proliferation and survival. This gene plays a role in ocular development involving the ciliary body. Mutations in this gene are believed to result in congenital ocular defects. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000063438	 The protein encoded by this gene participates in the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) signaling cascade, which mediates dioxin toxicity, and is involved in regulation of cell growth and differentiation. It functions as a feedback modulator by repressing AhR-dependent gene expression. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000085514	 Cell signaling pathways rely on a dynamic interaction between activating and inhibiting processes. SHP-1-mediated dephosphorylation of protein tyrosine residues is central to the regulation of several cell signaling pathways. Two types of inhibitory receptor superfamily members are immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory motif (ITIM)-bearing receptors and their non-ITIM-bearing, activating counterparts. Control of cell signaling via SHP-1 is thought to occur through a balance between PILRalpha-mediated inhibition and PILRbeta-mediated activation. These paired immunoglobulin-like receptor genes are located in a tandem head-to-tail orientation on chromosome 7. This particular gene encodes the ITIM-bearing member of the receptor pair, which functions in the inhibitory role. Alternative splicing has been observed at this locus and three variants, each encoding a distinct isoform, are described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000120049	 This gene encodes a member of the family of voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channel-interacting proteins (KCNIPs), which belongs to the recoverin branch of the EF-hand superfamily. Members of the KCNIP family are small calcium binding proteins. They all have EF-hand-like domains, and differ from each other in the N-terminus. They are integral subunit components of native Kv4 channel complexes. They may regulate A-type currents, and hence neuronal excitability, in response to changes in intracellular calcium. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified from this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000095713	 This gene encodes a glycosylated extracellular matrix protein that is found in the interterritorial matrix of articular deep zone cartilage. This protein is used as a marker to distinguish chondrocytes from osteoblasts and mesenchymal stem cells in culture. The presence of FG-GAP motifs and an RGD integrin-binding motif suggests that this protein may be involved in cell-cell or cell-matrix interactions. Copy number alterations in this gene have been observed in neurofibromatosis type 1-associated glomus tumors. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000125952	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper (bHLHZ) family of transcription factors. It is able to form homodimers and heterodimers with other family members, which include Mad, Mxi1 and Myc. Myc is an oncoprotein implicated in cell proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis. The homodimers and heterodimers compete for a common DNA target site (the E box) and rearrangement among these dimer forms provides a complex system of transcriptional regulation. Mutations of this gene have been reported to be associated with hereditary pheochromocytoma. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 7. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000183963	 This gene encodes a structural protein that is found exclusively in contractile smooth muscle cells. It associates with stress fibers and constitutes part of the cytoskeleton. This gene is localized to chromosome 22q12.3, distal to the TUPLE1 locus and outside the DiGeorge syndrome deletion. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000155975	 This gene belongs to the VPS37 family, and encodes a component of the ESCRT-I (endosomal sorting complex required for transport I) protein complex, required for the sorting of ubiquitinated transmembrane proteins into internal vesicles of multivesicular bodies. Expression of this gene is downregulated in hepatocellular carcinoma, and mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia-53. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 5. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000176678	 This gene encodes a member of the forkhead/winged helix-box (FOX) family of transcription factors. FOX transcription factors are characterized by a distinct DNA-binding forkhead domain and play critical roles in the regulation of multiple processes including metabolism, cell proliferation and gene expression during ontogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]. 
ENSG00000169567	 The protein encoded by this gene can hydrolyze substrates such as AMP-morpholidate, AMP-N-alanine methyl ester, AMP-alpha-acetyl lysine methyl ester, and AMP-NH2. The encoded protein interacts with these substrates via a histidine triad motif, which is part of the loop that binds to the substrate. This gene has been found to be a tumor suppressing gene. Several transcript variants, but only one of them protein-coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000157388	 Voltage-dependent calcium channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells, and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, and gene expression. Calcium channels are multisubunit complexes composed of alpha-1, beta, alpha-2/delta, and gamma subunits. The channel activity is directed by the pore-forming alpha-1 subunit, whereas the others act as auxiliary subunits regulating this activity. The distinctive properties of the calcium channel types are related primarily to the expression of a variety of alpha-1 isoforms, namely alpha-1A, B, C, D, E, and S. This gene encodes the alpha-1D subunit. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000214107	 This gene is a member of the MAGEB gene family. The members of this family have their entire coding sequences located in the last exon, and the encoded proteins show 50 to 68% sequence identity to each other. The promoters and first exons of the MAGEB genes show considerable variability, suggesting that the existence of this gene family enables the same function to be expressed under different transcriptional controls. This gene is localized in the DSS (dosage-sensitive sex reversal) critical region, and expressed in testis and in a significant fraction of tumors of various histological types. This gene and other MAGEB members are clustered on chromosome Xp22-p21. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene, however, the full length nature of some variants has not been defined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000107104	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Kank family of proteins, which contain multiple ankyrin repeat domains. This family member functions in cytoskeleton formation by regulating actin polymerization. This gene is a candidate tumor suppressor for renal cell carcinoma. Mutations in this gene cause cerebral palsy spastic quadriplegic type 2, a central nervous system development disorder. A t(5;9) translocation results in fusion of the platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta gene (PDGFRB) on chromosome 5 with this gene in a myeloproliferative neoplasm featuring severe thrombocythemia. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseuodgene has been identified on chromosome 20. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000204498	 This gene encodes a divergent member of the I-kappa-B family of proteins. Its function has not been determined. The gene lies within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I region on chromosome 6. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]. 
ENSG00000161955	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This protein is a ligand for TNFRSF17/BCMA, a member of the TNF receptor family. This protein and its receptor are both found to be important for B cell development. In vitro experiments suggested that this protein may be able to induce apoptosis through its interaction with other TNF receptor family proteins such as TNFRSF6/FAS and TNFRSF14/HVEM. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Some transcripts that skip the last exon of the upstream gene (TNFSF12) and continue into the second exon of this gene have been identified; such read-through transcripts are contained in GeneID 407977, TNFSF12-TNFSF13. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000137080	 This gene is a member of the alpha interferon gene cluster on the short arm of chromosome 9. Interferons are cytokines produced in response to viral infection that mediate the immune response and interfere with viral replication. The encoded protein is a type I interferon and may play a specific role in the antiviral response to rubella virus. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000166145	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Kunitz family of serine protease inhibitors. The protein is a potent inhibitor specific for HGF activator and is thought to be involved in the regulation of the proteolytic activation of HGF in injured tissues. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000074211	 The product of this gene belongs to the phosphatase 2 regulatory subunit B family. Protein phosphatase 2 is one of the four major Ser/Thr phosphatases, and it is implicated in the negative control of cell growth and division. It consists of a common heteromeric core enzyme, which is composed of a catalytic subunit and a constant regulatory subunit, that associates with a variety of regulatory subunits. The B regulatory subunit might modulate substrate selectivity and catalytic activity. This gene encodes a gamma isoform of the regulatory subunit B55 subfamily. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000127329	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP contains an extracellular domain, a single transmembrane segment and one intracytoplasmic catalytic domain, thus belongs to receptor type PTP. The extracellular region of this PTP is composed of multiple fibronectin type_III repeats, which was shown to interact with neuronal receptor and cell adhesion molecules, such as contactin and tenascin C. This protein was also found to interact with sodium channels, and thus may regulate sodium channels by altering tyrosine phosphorylation status. The functions of the interaction partners of this protein implicate the roles of this PTP in cell adhesion, neurite growth, and neuronal differentiation. Alternate transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000116691	 This gene encodes a protein that interacts with the oncogene protein insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 and may function as an inhibitor of cell migration and invasion. This protein also interacts with the cell division protein 20 and may be involved in regulating mitotic progression. This protein may function as a tumor suppressor by inhibiting the growth or certain cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000143434	 This gene encodes a member of the semaphorin family. Semaphorins represent important molecular signals controlling multiple aspects of the cellular response that follows CNS injury, and thus may play an important role in neural regeneration. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000134758	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a RING finger, a motif present in a variety of functionally distinct proteins and known to be involved in protein-DNA and protein-protein interactions. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110025	 This gene encodes a member of the sorting nexin family. Members of this family contain a phox (PX) domain, which is a phosphoinositide binding domain, and are involved in intracellular trafficking. Overexpression of this gene results in a decrease in the processing of insulin and hepatocyte growth factor receptors to their mature subunits. This decrease is caused by the mislocalization of furin, the endoprotease responsible for cleavage of insulin and hepatocyte growth factor receptors. This protein is involved in endosomal trafficking from the plasma membrane to recycling endosomes or the trans-Golgi network. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the upstream ADP-ribosylation factor-like 2 (ARL2) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000175387	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SMAD, a family of proteins similar to the gene products of the Drosophila gene 'mothers against decapentaplegic' (Mad) and the C. elegans gene Sma. SMAD proteins are signal transducers and transcriptional modulators that mediate multiple signaling pathways. This protein mediates the signal of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta, and thus regulates multiple cellular processes, such as cell proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation. This protein is recruited to the TGF-beta receptors through its interaction with the SMAD anchor for receptor activation (SARA) protein. In response to TGF-beta signal, this protein is phosphorylated by the TGF-beta receptors. The phosphorylation induces the dissociation of this protein with SARA and the association with the family member SMAD4. The association with SMAD4 is important for the translocation of this protein into the nucleus, where it binds to target promoters and forms a transcription repressor complex with other cofactors. This protein can also be phosphorylated by activin type 1 receptor kinase, and mediates the signal from the activin. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000180398	 This gene encodes a soluble luminal protein with two calmodulin-like EF-hand motifs at its C-terminus. This protein forms a complex with LAMN1 (lectin mannose binding protein 1; also known as ERGIC-53) that facilitates the transport of coagulation factors V (FV) and VIII (FVIII) from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus via an endoplasmic reticulum Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC). Mutations in this gene cause combined deficiency of FV and FVIII (F5F8D); a rare autosomal recessive bleeding disorder characterized by mild to moderate bleeding and coordinate reduction in plasma FV and FVIII levels. This protein has also been shown to maintain stem cell potential in adult central nervous system and is a marker for testicular germ cell tumors. The 3' UTR of this gene contains a transposon-like human repeat element named 'THE 1'. A processed RNA pseudogene of this gene is on chromosome 6p22.1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000102007	 This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum in colonic epithelial cells. The encoded protein can multimerize and may function as an ion channel. A polymorphism in the promoter of this gene may be linked to an increased risk of X-linked mental retardation. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 5. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000114859	 This gene encodes a voltage-gated chloride channel. The encoded protein is a transmembrane protein that maintains chloride ion homeostasis in various cells. Defects in this gene may be a cause of certain epilepsies. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000107105	 The protein encoded by this gene is a neural-specific RNA-binding protein that is known to bind to several 3' UTRs, including its own and also that of FOS and ID. The encoded protein may recognize a GAAA motif in the RNA. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000136928	 The multi-pass membrane protein encoded by this gene belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 3 family and GABA-B receptor subfamily. The GABA-B receptors inhibit neuronal activity through G protein-coupled second-messenger systems, which regulate the release of neurotransmitters, and the activity of ion channels and adenylyl cyclase. This receptor subunit forms an active heterodimeric complex with GABA-B receptor subunit 1, neither of which is effective on its own. Allelic variants of this gene have been associated with nicotine dependence.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000140905	 Degradation of glycine is brought about by the glycine cleavage system, which is composed of four mitochondrial protein components: P protein (a pyridoxal phosphate-dependent glycine decarboxylase), H protein (a lipoic acid-containing protein), T protein (a tetrahydrofolate-requiring enzyme), and L protein (a lipoamide dehydrogenase). The protein encoded by this gene is the H protein, which transfers the methylamine group of glycine from the P protein to the T protein. Defects in this gene are a cause of nonketotic hyperglycinemia (NKH). Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other probably not protein-coding,have been found for this gene. Also, several transcribed and non-transcribed pseudogenes of this gene exist throughout the genome.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000073921	 This gene encodes a clathrin assembly protein, which recruits clathrin and adaptor protein complex 2 (AP2) to cell membranes at sites of coated-pit formation and clathrin-vesicle assembly. The protein may be required to determine the amount of membrane to be recycled, possibly by regulating the size of the clathrin cage. The protein is involved in AP2-dependent clathrin-mediated endocytosis at the neuromuscular junction. A chromosomal translocation t(10;11)(p13;q14) leading to the fusion of this gene and the MLLT10 gene is found in acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia and malignant lymphomas. The polymorphisms of this gene are associated with the risk of Alzheimer disease. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000117595	 This gene encodes a member of the interferon regulatory transcription factor (IRF) family. Family members share a highly-conserved N-terminal helix-turn-helix DNA-binding domain and a less conserved C-terminal protein-binding domain. The encoded protein may be a transcriptional activator. Mutations in this gene can cause van der Woude syndrome and popliteal pterygium syndrome. Mutations in this gene are also associated with non-syndromic orofacial cleft type 6. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000131738	 This gene encodes a member of the keratin gene family. This gene is one of multiple type I hair keratin genes that are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21 and have the same direction of transcription. As a type I hair keratin, the encoded protein is an acidic protein which heterodimerizes with type II keratins to form hair and nails. There are two isoforms of this protein, encoded by two separate genes, keratin 33A and keratin 33B. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000067836	 This gene encodes a protein of unknown function. Loss-of-function mutation in this gene cause Kohlschutter-Tonz syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000163877	 This gene encodes a protein that contains a coiled-coil motif and C-terminal forkhead-associated (FHA) domain. The encoded protein functions as a transcriptional coactivator that increases c-Myc activity and inhibits transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) and nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kB) signaling. The encoded protein also regulates the stability of cyclin D1 mRNA, and may play a role in cell proliferation and cancer progression. Mutations in this gene are a cause of psychomotor retardation, epilepsy, and craniofacial dysmorphism (PMRED). [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000106080	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the FK506-binding protein family of peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerases. The encoded protein is found in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum, where it is thought to accelerate protein folding. Defects in this gene are a cause of a type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS). Both a protein-coding variant and noncoding variants are transcribed from this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000118058	 This gene encodes a transcriptional coactivator that plays an essential role in regulating gene expression during early development and hematopoiesis. The encoded protein contains multiple conserved functional domains. One of these domains, the SET domain, is responsible for its histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) methyltransferase activity which mediates chromatin modifications associated with epigenetic transcriptional activation. This protein is processed by the enzyme Taspase 1 into two fragments, MLL-C and MLL-N. These fragments reassociate and further assemble into different multiprotein complexes that regulate the transcription of specific target genes, including many of the HOX genes. Multiple chromosomal translocations involving this gene are the cause of certain acute lymphoid leukemias and acute myeloid leukemias. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000139116	 This gene encodes a member of the KIF4 subfamily of kinesin-like motor proteins. The encoded protein is characterized by an N-terminal motor domain a coiled-coil stalk domain and a C-terminal WD-40 repeat domain. This protein may be involved in microtubule dependent transport. Mutations in this gene are the cause of congenital fibrosis of extraocular muscles-1. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000198246	 This gene encodes a nucleoside transporter. The encoded protein plays a role in cellular uptake of nucleosides, nucleobases, and their related analogs. Mutations in this gene have been associated with H syndrome, which is characterized by cutaneous hyperpigmentation and hypertrichosis, hepatosplenomegaly, heart anomalies, and hypogonadism. A related disorder, PHID (pigmented hypertrichosis with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus), has also been associated with mutations at this locus. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000165794	 This gene encodes a member of the ZIP family of metal ion transporters. The encoded protein functions as a zinc transporter. Mutations in this gene may be associated with susceptibility to carotid artery disease. Multiple transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000198954	 This gene encodes a kinesin family member 1 binding protein that is characterized by two tetratrico peptide repeats. The encoded protein localizes to the mitochondria and may be involved in regulating transport of the mitochondria. Mutations in this gene are associated with Goldberg-Shprintzen megacolon syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000127838	 This gene is thought to play a role in the regulation of myofibrillogenesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the movement disorder paroxysmal non-kinesigenic dyskinesia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000196767	 This gene encodes a member of the POU-III class of neural transcription factors. This family member plays a role in inner ear development. The protein is thought to be involved in the mediation of epigenetic signals which induce striatal neuron-precursor differentiation. Mutations in this gene are associated with X chromosome-linked nonsyndromic mixed deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000074370	 This gene encodes one of the SERCA Ca(2+)-ATPases, which are intracellular pumps located in the sarcoplasmic or endoplasmic reticula of muscle cells. This enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the translocation of calcium from the cytosol to the sarcoplasmic reticulum lumen, and is involved in calcium sequestration associated with muscular excitation and contraction. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113494	 This gene encodes a receptor for the anterior pituitary hormone, prolactin, and belongs to the type I cytokine receptor family. Prolactin-dependent signaling occurs as the result of ligand-induced dimerization of the prolactin receptor. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different membrane-bound and soluble isoforms have been described for this gene, which may function to modulate the endocrine and autocrine effects of prolactin in normal tissue and cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000158869	 The high affinity IgE receptor is a key molecule involved in allergic reactions. It is a tetramer composed of 1 alpha, 1 beta, and 2 gamma chains. The gamma chains are also subunits of other Fc receptors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204420	 This gene is a member of the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily and is located in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class III region. The protein encoded by this gene is a glycosylated, plasma membrane-bound cell surface receptor, but soluble isoforms encoded by some transcript variants have been found in the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi before being secreted. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163703	 This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of epidermal growth factor-related proteins. The encoded protein is characterized by a cysteine-rich with epidermal growth factor-like domain. This protein may function as a cell adhesion molecule. Mutations in this gene are the cause of atrioventricular septal defect. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000163719	 This gene encodes a myotubularin-related protein. The encoded protein is a phosphoinositide phosphatase that specifically dephosphorylates phosphatidylinositol 3,5-biphosphate and phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate. Mutations in this gene are correlated with autosomal dominant centronuclear myopathy. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 18.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000163827	 This gene encodes a member of the leucine-rich repeat-containing family of proteins, which function in diverse biological pathways. This family member may possibly be a nuclear protein. Similarity to the RAS suppressor protein, as well as expression down-regulation observed in tumor cells, suggests that it may function as a tumor suppressor. The gene is located in the chromosome 3 common eliminated region 1 (C3CER1), a 1.4 Mb region that is commonly deleted in diverse tumors. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000182512	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein, which is evolutionarily conserved. It is involved in the biogenesis of iron-sulfur clusters, which are required for normal iron homeostasis. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive pyridoxine-refractory sideroblastic anemia. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000175544	 This gene encodes a member of the CABP family of calcium binding protein characterized by four EF-hand motifs. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital stationary night blindness type 2B. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000072864	 This gene encodes a member of the nuclear distribution E (NudE) family of proteins. The encoded protein is localized at the centrosome and interacts with other centrosome components as part of a multiprotein complex that regulates dynein function. This protein plays an essential role in microtubule organization, mitosis and neuronal migration. Mutations in this gene cause lissencephaly 4, a disorder characterized by lissencephaly, severe brain atrophy, microcephaly, and severe mental retardation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000118965	 This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. Two patients with Sensenbrenner syndrome / cranioectodermal dysplasia (CED) were identified with mutations in this gene, consistent with a possible ciliary function.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000136492	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RecQ DEAH helicase family and interacts with the BRCT repeats of breast cancer, type 1 (BRCA1). The bound complex is important in the normal double-strand break repair function of breast cancer, type 1 (BRCA1). This gene may be a target of germline cancer-inducing mutations. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000141527	 This gene encodes a caspase recruitment domain-containing protein that is a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family of proteins. Members of this protein family are scaffold proteins that are involved in a diverse array of cellular processes including cellular adhesion, signal transduction and cell polarity control. This protein has been shown to specifically interact with BCL10, a protein known to function as a positive regulator of cell apoptosis and NF-kappaB activation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000078403	 This gene encodes a transcription factor and has been identified as a partner gene involved in several chromosomal rearrangements resulting in various leukemias. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000159267	 This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the binding of biotin to carboxylases and histones. The protein plays an important role in gluconeogenesis, fatty acid synthesis and branched chain amino acid catabolism. Defects in this gene are the cause of holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000087460	 This locus has a highly complex imprinted expression pattern. It gives rise to maternally, paternally, and biallelically expressed transcripts that are derived from four alternative promoters and 5' exons. Some transcripts contain a differentially methylated region (DMR) at their 5' exons, and this DMR is commonly found in imprinted genes and correlates with transcript expression. An antisense transcript is produced from an overlapping locus on the opposite strand. One of the transcripts produced from this locus, and the antisense transcript, are paternally expressed noncoding RNAs, and may regulate imprinting in this region. In addition, one of the transcripts contains a second overlapping ORF, which encodes a structurally unrelated protein - Alex. Alternative splicing of downstream exons is also observed, which results in different forms of the stimulatory G-protein alpha subunit, a key element of the classical signal transduction pathway linking receptor-ligand interactions with the activation of adenylyl cyclase and a variety of cellular reponses. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Mutations in this gene result in pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1a, pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1b, Albright hereditary osteodystrophy, pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism, McCune-Albright syndrome, progressive osseus heteroplasia, polyostotic fibrous dysplasia of bone, and some pituitary tumors. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]. 
ENSG00000176842	 This gene encodes a member of the iroquois homeobox gene family, which are involved in several embryonic developmental processes. Knockout mice lacking this gene show that it is required for retinal cone bipolar cell differentiation, and that it negatively regulates potassium channel gene expression in the heart to ensure coordinated cardiac repolarization. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000115159	 The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the inner mitochondrial membrane and catalyzes the conversion of glycerol-3-phosphate to dihydroxyacetone phosphate, using FAD as a cofactor. Along with GDP1, the encoded protein constitutes the glycerol phosphate shuttle, which reoxidizes NADH formed during glycolysis. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000113318	 The protein encoded by this gene forms a heterodimer with MSH2 to form MutS beta, part of the post-replicative DNA mismatch repair system. MutS beta initiates mismatch repair by binding to a mismatch and then forming a complex with MutL alpha heterodimer. This gene contains a polymorphic 9 bp tandem repeat sequence in the first exon. The repeat is present 6 times in the reference genome sequence and 3-7 repeats have been reported. Defects in this gene are a cause of susceptibility to endometrial cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000177324	 This gene encodes a protein which has two BEN domains in the C-terminus. These domains are found in proteins which participate in protein and DNA interactions which occur during chromatin restructuring or transcription. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000173681	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL772197.12. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000204165	 VALIDATED REFSEQ: This record has undergone validation or preliminary review. The reference sequence was derived from AL590764.3. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000181092	 This gene is expressed in adipose tissue exclusively. It encodes a protein with similarity to collagens X and VIII and complement factor C1q. The encoded protein circulates in the plasma and is involved with metabolic and hormonal processes. Mutations in this gene are associated with adiponectin deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000262359	 There are at least two protein isoforms of the Double C2 protein,  namely alpha (DOC2A) and beta (DOC2B), which contain two C2-like domains.  DOC2A and DOC2B are encoded by different genes; these genes are at times confused with the unrelated DAB2 gene which was initially named DOC-2. DOC2B is expressed ubiquitously and is suggested to be involved in Ca(2+)-dependent intracellular vesicle trafficking in various types of cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000196218	 This gene encodes a ryanodine receptor found in skeletal muscle. The encoded protein functions as a calcium release channel in the sarcoplasmic reticulum but also serves to connect the sarcoplasmic reticulum and transverse tubule. Mutations in this gene are associated with malignant hyperthermia susceptibility, central core disease, and minicore myopathy with external ophthalmoplegia. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131203	 This gene encodes indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) - a heme enzyme that catalyzes the first and rate-limiting step in tryptophan catabolism to N-formyl-kynurenine. This enzyme acts on multiple tryptophan substrates including D-tryptophan, L-tryptophan, 5-hydroxy-tryptophan, tryptamine, and serotonin. This enzyme is thought to play a role in a variety of pathophysiological processes such as antimicrobial and antitumor defense, neuropathology, immunoregulation, and antioxidant activity. Through its expression in dendritic cells, monocytes, and macrophages this enzyme modulates T-cell behavior by its peri-cellular catabolization of the essential amino acid tryptophan.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000164687	 This gene encodes the fatty acid binding protein found in epidermal cells, and was first identified as being upregulated in psoriasis tissue. Fatty acid binding proteins are a family of small, highly conserved, cytoplasmic proteins that bind long-chain fatty acids and other hydrophobic ligands. FABPs may play roles in fatty acid uptake, transport, and metabolism. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with type 2 diabetes. The human genome contains many pseudogenes similar to this locus.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000172915	 This gene encodes a member of a large, diverse group of A-kinase anchor proteins that target the activity of protein kinase A to specific subcellular sites by binding to its type II regulatory subunits. Brain-specific expression and coat protein-like membrane recruitment of a highly similar protein in mouse suggest an involvement in neuronal post-Golgi membrane traffic. Mutations in this gene may be associated with a form of autism. This gene and its expression are frequently disrupted in patients with multiple myeloma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional transcript variants may exist, but their full-length nature has not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000115526	 This protein encoded by this gene transfers sulfate to the C-3 hydroxyl of terminal glucuronic acid of protein- and lipid-linked oligosaccharides. This protein was first identified as a sulfotransferase that acts on the human natural killer-1 (HNK-1) glycan; HNK-1 is a carbohydrate involved in neurodevelopment and synaptic plasticity.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000103174	 Hydrolases are transported to lysosomes after binding to mannose 6-phosphate receptors in the trans-Golgi network. This gene encodes the enzyme that catalyzes the second step in the formation of the mannose 6-phosphate recognition marker on lysosomal hydrolases. Commonly known as 'uncovering enzyme' or UCE, this enzyme removes N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (GlcNAc) residues from GlcNAc-alpha-P-mannose moieties and thereby produces the recognition marker. This reaction most likely occurs in the trans-Golgi network. This enzyme functions as a homotetramer of two disulfide-linked homodimers. In addition to having an N-terminal signal peptide, the protein's C-terminus contains multiple signals for trafficking it between lysosomes, the plasma membrane, and trans-Golgi network. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000085998	 The protein encoded by this gene is a type II transmembrane protein that resides in the golgi. It participates in O-mannosyl glycosylation, and is specific for alpha linked terminal mannose. Mutations in this gene are associated with muscle-eye-brain (MEB) disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000188672	 The Rh blood group system is the second most clinically significant of the blood groups, second only to ABO. It is also the most polymorphic of the blood groups, with variations due to deletions, gene conversions, and missense mutations. The Rh blood group includes this gene which encodes both the RhC and RhE antigens on a single polypeptide and a second gene which encodes the RhD protein. The classification of Rh-positive and Rh-negative individuals is determined by the presence or absence of the highly immunogenic RhD protein on the surface of erythrocytes. A mutation in this gene results in amorph-type Rh-null disease. Alternative splicing of this gene results in four transcript variants encoding four different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140650	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the isomerization of mannose 6-phosphate to mannose 1-phosphate, which is a precursor to GDP-mannose necessary for the synthesis of dolichol-P-oligosaccharides. Mutations in this gene have been shown to cause defects in glycoprotein biosynthesis, which manifests as carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome type I. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000174951	 The protein encoded by this gene is a Golgi stack membrane protein that is involved in the creation of a precursor of the H antigen, which is required for the final step in the soluble A and B antigen synthesis pathway. This gene is one of two encoding the galactoside 2-L-fucosyltransferase enzyme. Mutations in this gene are a cause of the H-Bombay blood group. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].  Sequence Note: This RefSeq record represents the H*01.01.01 allele. 
ENSG00000042753	 One of two major clathrin-associated adaptor complexes, AP-2, is a heterotetramer which is associated with the plasma membrane. This complex is composed of two large chains, a medium chain, and a small chain. This gene encodes the small chain of this complex. Alternative splicing has been observed in this gene and results in two known transcripts. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000110888	 The protein encoded by this gene may be involved in the transitioning of erythroblasts from a highly proliferative state to a terminal phase of differentiation. High level expression of the encoded protein can lead to apoptosis. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000101276	 This gene encodes a riboflavin transporter protein that is strongly expressed in the intestine and likely plays a role in intestinal absorption of riboflavin. The protein is predicted to have eleven transmembrane domains and a cell surface localization signal in the C-terminus. Mutations at this locus have been associated with Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome and Fazio-Londe disease. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000135924	 This gene is almost exclusively expressed in the brain, mainly in the neuronal layers. It encodes a protein that shows sequence similarity to bacterial DnaJ protein and the yeast homologs. In bacteria, this protein is implicated in protein folding and protein complex dissociation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]. 
ENSG00000134046	 DNA methylation is the major modification of eukaryotic genomes and plays an essential role in mammalian development. Human proteins MECP2, MBD1, MBD2, MBD3, and MBD4 comprise a family of nuclear proteins related by the presence in each of a methyl-CpG binding domain (MBD). Each of these proteins, with the exception of MBD3, is capable of binding specifically to methylated DNA. MECP2, MBD1 and MBD2 can also repress transcription from methylated gene promoters. The protein encoded by this gene may function as a mediator of the biological consequences of the methylation signal. It is also reported that the this protein functions as a demethylase to activate transcription, as DNA methylation causes gene silencing. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000196189	 This gene encodes a member of the semaphorin family of soluble and transmembrane proteins. Semaphorins are involved in numerous functions, including axon guidance, morphogenesis, carcinogenesis, and immunomodulation. The encoded protein is a single-pass type I membrane protein containing an immunoglobulin-like C2-type domain, a PSI domain and a sema domain. It inhibits axonal extension by providing local signals to specify territories inaccessible for growing axons. It is an activator of T-cell-mediated immunity and suppresses vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-mediated endothelial cell migration and proliferation in vitro and angiogenesis in vivo. Mutations in this gene are associated with retinal degenerative diseases including retinitis pigmentosa type 35 (RP35) and cone-rod dystrophy type 10 (CORD10). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000140279	 The protein encoded by this gene is a glycoprotein and a member of the NADPH oxidase family. The synthesis of thyroid hormone is catalyzed by a protein complex located at the apical membrane of thyroid follicular cells. This complex contains an iodide transporter, thyroperoxidase, and a peroxide generating system that includes this encoded protein and DUOX1. This protein is known as dual oxidase because it has both a peroxidase homology domain and a gp91phox domain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000090539	 This gene encodes a secreted protein that dorsalizes early vertebrate embryonic tissues by binding to ventralizing TGF-beta-like bone morphogenetic proteins and sequestering them in latent complexes. The encoded protein may also have roles in organogenesis and during adulthood. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. Other alternative splice variants have been described but their full length sequence has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000149541	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the glucuronyltransferase gene family, enzymes that exhibit strict acceptor specificity, recognizing nonreducing terminal sugars and their anomeric linkages. This gene product catalyzes the formation of the glycosaminoglycan-protein linkage by way of a glucuronyl transfer reaction in the final step of the biosynthesis of the linkage region of proteoglycans. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000112282	 The activation of gene transcription is a multistep process that is triggered by factors that recognize transcriptional enhancer sites in DNA. These factors work with co-activators to direct transcriptional initiation by the RNA polymerase II apparatus. The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the CRSP (cofactor required for SP1 activation) complex, which, along with TFIID, is required for efficient activation by SP1. This protein is also a component of other multisubunit complexes e.g. thyroid hormone receptor-(TR-) associated proteins which interact with TR and facilitate TR function on DNA templates in conjunction with initiation factors and cofactors. This protein also acts as a metastasis suppressor. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000149596	 Junctional complexes between the plasma membrane and endoplasmic/sarcoplasmic reticulum are a common feature of all excitable cell types and mediate cross talk between cell surface and intracellular ion channels. The protein encoded by this gene is a component of junctional complexes and is composed of a C-terminal hydrophobic segment spanning the endoplasmic/sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane and a remaining cytoplasmic domain that shows specific affinity for the plasma membrane. This gene is a member of the junctophilin gene family. Alternative splicing has been observed at this locus and two variants encoding distinct isoforms are described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000116690	 The protein encoded by this gene is a large proteoglycan specifically synthesized by chondrocytes located at the surface of articular cartilage, and also by some synovial lining cells. This protein contains both chondroitin sulfate and keratan sulfate glycosaminoglycans. It functions as a boundary lubricant at the cartilage surface and contributes to the elastic absorption and energy dissipation of synovial fluid. Mutations in this gene result in camptodactyly-arthropathy-coxa vara-pericarditis syndrome. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145901	 This gene encodes an A20-binding protein which plays a role in autoimmunity and tissue homeostasis through the regulation of nuclear factor kappa-B activation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000110148	 This gene encodes a G-protein coupled receptor for gastrin and cholecystokinin (CCK), regulatory peptides of the brain and gastrointestinal tract. This protein is a type B gastrin receptor, which has a high affinity for both sulfated and nonsulfated CCK analogs and is found principally in the central nervous system and the gastrointestinal tract. A misspliced transcript variant including an intron has been observed in cells from colorectal and pancreatic tumors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000244486	 The protein encoded by this gene is similar to SCARF1/SREC-I, a scavenger receptor protein that mediates the binding and degradation of acetylated low density lipoprotein (Ac-LDL). This protein has only little activity of internalizing modified low density lipoproteins (LDL), but it can interact with SCARF1 through its extracellular domain. The association of this protein with SCARF1 is suppressed by the presence of scavenger ligands. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000123066	 The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the Mediator complex, a large complex of proteins that functions as a transcriptional coactivator for most RNA polymerase II-transcribed genes. The encoded protein is involved in early development of the heart and brain. Defects in this gene are a cause of transposition of the great arteries, dextro-looped (DTGA).[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000169359	 The protein encoded by this gene is required for the formation of O-acetylated (Ac) gangliosides. The encoded protein is predicted to contain 6 to 10 transmembrane domains, and a leucine zipper motif in transmembrane domain III. Defects in this gene have been reported to cause spastic paraplegia autosomal dominant type 42 (SPG42) in one Chinese family, but not in similar patients of European descent. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000065621	 The protein encoded by this gene is an omega class glutathione S-transferase (GST). GSTs are involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics and carcinogens. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000109323	 This gene encodes a member of the glycosyl hydrolase 2 family. The encoded protein localizes to the lysosome where it is the final exoglycosidase in the pathway for N-linked glycoprotein oligosaccharide catabolism. Mutations in this gene are associated with beta-mannosidosis, a lysosomal storage disease that has a wide spectrum of neurological involvement. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000165899	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the otogelin family. This gene is expressed in the inner ear of vertebrates with the highest level of expression seen at the embryonic stage and lowest in adult. Knockdown studies in zebrafish suggest that this gene is essential for normal inner ear function. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000135541	 This gene is apparently required for both cerebellar and cortical development in humans. This gene mutations cause specific forms of Joubert syndrome-related disorders. Joubert syndrome (JS) is a recessively inherited developmental brain disorder with several identified causative chromosomal loci. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000136425	 The protein encoded by this gene is similar to that of KIP/CIB, calcineurin B, and calmodulin. This suggests that the encoded protein may be a calcium-binding regulatory protein that interacts with DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunits (DNA-PKcs). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000131165	 This gene encodes a member of the CHMP/Chmp family of proteins which are involved in multivesicular body sorting of proteins to the interiors of lysosomes. The initial prediction of the protein sequence encoded by this gene suggested that the encoded protein was a metallopeptidase. The nomenclature has been updated recently to reflect the correct biological function of this encoded protein. Several transcripts encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000196998	 This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. This gene has a pseudogene at chromosome 4q31.3. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene, but the biological validity and full-length nature of some variants have not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000145982	 Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. This gene encodes a phenylalanine-tRNA synthetase (PheRS) localized to the mitochondrion which consists of a single polypeptide chain, unlike the (alpha-beta)2 structure of the prokaryotic and eukaryotic cytoplasmic forms of PheRS. Structure analysis and catalytic properties indicate mitochondrial PheRSs may constitute a class of PheRS distinct from the enzymes found in prokaryotes and in the eukaryotic cytoplasm. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000131779	 The protein encoded by this gene facilitates peroxisomal proliferation and interacts with PEX19. The encoded protein is found in the peroxisomal membrane. Several transcript variants, some protein-coding and some not protein-coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000108823	 This gene encodes a component of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC), which is critical to the stability of muscle fiber membranes and to the linking of the actin cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix. Its expression is thought to be restricted to striated muscle. Mutations in this gene result in type 2D autosomal recessive limb-girdle muscular dystrophy. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000112312	 This gene encodes a protein that plays a critical role in cell cycle regulation. The encoded protein inhibits DNA replication by binding to DNA replication factor Cdt1, preventing the incorporation of minichromosome maintenance proteins into the pre-replication complex. The encoded protein is expressed during the S and G2 phases of the cell cycle and is degraded by the anaphase-promoting complex during the metaphase-anaphase transition. Increased expression of this gene may play a role in several malignancies including colon, rectal and breast cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene, and two pseudogenes of this gene are located on the short arm of chromosome 16. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000135077	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily, and TIM family of proteins. CD4-positive T helper lymphocytes can be divided into types 1 (Th1) and 2 (Th2) on the basis of their cytokine secretion patterns. Th1 cells are involved in cell-mediated immunity to intracellular pathogens and delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions, whereas, Th2 cells are involved in the control of extracellular helminthic infections and the promotion of atopic and allergic diseases. This protein is a Th1-specific cell surface protein that regulates macrophage activation, and inhibits Th1-mediated auto- and alloimmune responses, and promotes immunological tolerance. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000132031	 This gene encodes a member of von Willebrand factor A domain containing protein family. This family of proteins is thought to be involved in the formation of filamentous networks in the extracellular matrices of various tissues. This protein contains two von Willebrand factor A domains; it is present in the cartilage extracellular matrix and has a role in the development and homeostasis of cartilage and bone. Mutations in this gene result in multiple epiphyseal dysplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204403	 Caspases are cysteine proteases that cleave C-terminal aspartic acid residues on their substrate molecules. This gene is most highly related to members of the ICE subfamily of caspases that process inflammatory cytokines. In rodents, the homolog of this gene mediates apoptosis in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. However, in humans this gene contains a polymorphism for the presence or absence of a premature stop codon. The majority of human individuals have the premature stop codon and produce a truncated non-functional protein. The read-through codon occurs primarily in individuals of African descent and carriers have endotoxin hypo-responsiveness and an increased susceptibility to severe sepsis. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000073756	 Prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase (PTGS), also known as cyclooxygenase, is the key enzyme in prostaglandin biosynthesis, and acts both as a dioxygenase and as a peroxidase. There are two isozymes of PTGS: a constitutive PTGS1 and an inducible PTGS2, which differ in their regulation of expression and tissue distribution. This gene encodes the inducible isozyme. It is regulated by specific stimulatory events, suggesting that it is responsible for the prostanoid biosynthesis involved in inflammation and mitogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]. 
ENSG00000177575	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the scavenger receptor cysteine-rich (SRCR) superfamily, and is exclusively expressed in monocytes and macrophages. It functions as an acute phase-regulated receptor involved in the clearance and endocytosis of hemoglobin/haptoglobin complexes by macrophages, and may thereby protect tissues from free hemoglobin-mediated oxidative damage. This protein may also function as an innate immune sensor for bacteria and inducer of local inflammation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000196418	 This gene encodes a member of the Kruppel-type (C2H2) zinc finger protein family. It has a KRAB-A box at its amino terminus and seven consecutively repeated zinc finger motifs at its carboxy terminus. Expression of this gene is increased after vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) stimulation in human leukemia cell lines and its expression inhibits apoptotic cell death induced by irradiation or exposure to etoposide. These attributes suggest that this protein may act as a transcription factor. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct proteins. Additional transcript variants have been described for this gene but their biological validity has not been confirmed. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome 14. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000172819	 This gene encodes a retinoic acid receptor that belongs to the nuclear hormone receptor family. Retinoic acid receptors (RARs) act as ligand-dependent transcriptional regulators. When bound to ligands, RARs activate transcription by binding as heterodimers to the retinoic acid response elements (RARE) found in the promoter regions of the target genes. In their unbound form, RARs repress transcription of their target genes. RARs are involved in various biological processes, including limb bud development, skeletal growth, and matrix homeostasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000173511	 This gene encodes a member of the PDGF (platelet-derived growth factor)/VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) family. The VEGF family members regulate the formation of blood vessels and are involved in endothelial cell physiology. This member is a ligand for VEGFR-1 (vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1) and NRP-1 (neuropilin-1). Studies in mice showed that this gene was co-expressed with nuclear-encoded mitochondrial genes and the encoded protein specifically controlled endothelial uptake of fatty acids. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000089159	 This gene encodes a cytoskeletal protein involved in actin-membrane attachment at sites of cell adhesion to the extracellular matrix (focal adhesion). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. These isoforms exhibit different expression pattern, and have different biochemical, as well as physiological properties (PMID:9054445). [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000175582	 This gene encodes a member of the RAB family, which belongs to the small GTPase superfamily. GTPases of the RAB family bind to various effectors to regulate the targeting and fusion of transport carriers to acceptor compartments. This protein is located at the Golgi apparatus, which regulates trafficking in both a retrograde (from early endosomes and Golgi to the endoplasmic reticulum) and an anterograde (from the Golgi to the plasma membrane) directions. Myosin II is an effector of this protein in these processes. This protein is also involved in assembly of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) by interacting with the cellular protein Bicaudal D1, which interacts with the HCMV virion tegument protein, pp150. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000175040	 This locus encodes a sulfotransferase protein. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the sulfation of a nonreducing N-acetylglucosamine residue, and may play a role in biosynthesis of 6-sulfosialyl Lewis X antigen. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000117983	 This gene encodes a member of the mucin family of proteins, which are highly glycosylated macromolecular components of mucus secretions. This family member is the major gel-forming mucin in mucus. It is a major contributor to the lubricating and viscoelastic properties of whole saliva, normal lung mucus and cervical mucus. This gene has been found to be up-regulated in some human diseases, including sinus mucosa of chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS), CRS with nasal polyposis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and H. pylori-associated gastric disease, and it may be involved in the pathogenesis of these diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000187630	 This gene encodes a member of the short chain dehydrogenase reductase family. The encoded protein may be an NADPH dependent retinol oxidoreductase. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]. 
ENSG00000063854	 The enzyme encoded by this gene is classified as a thiolesterase and is responsible for the hydrolysis of S-lactoyl-glutathione to reduced glutathione and D-lactate. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000197905	 This gene product is a member of the transcriptional enhancer factor (TEF) family of transcription factors, which contain the TEA/ATTS DNA-binding domain. It is preferentially expressed in the skeletal muscle, and binds to the M-CAT regulatory element found in promoters of muscle-specific genes to direct their gene expression. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding distinct isoforms, some of which are translated through the use of a non-AUG (UUG) initiation codon, have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000089057	 The absorption of vitamin C into the body and its distribution to organs requires two sodium-dependent vitamin C transporters. This gene encodes one of the two required transporters and the encoded protein accounts for tissue-specific uptake of vitamin C. Previously, this gene had an official symbol of SLC23A1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000006611	 This gene encodes a scaffold protein that functions in the assembly of Usher protein complexes. The protein contains PDZ domains, a coiled-coil region with a bipartite nuclear localization signal and a PEST degradation sequence. Defects in this gene are the cause of Usher syndrome type 1C and non-syndromic sensorineural deafness autosomal recessive type 18. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]. 
ENSG00000117362	 This gene encodes a component of the gamma secretase complex that cleaves integral membrane proteins such as Notch receptors and beta-amyloid precursor protein. The gamma secretase complex contains this gene product, or the paralogous anterior pharynx defective 1 homolog B (APH1B), along with the presenilin, nicastrin, and presenilin enhancer-2 proteins. The precise function of this seven-transmembrane-domain protein is unknown though it is suspected of facilitating the association of nicastrin and presenilin in the gamma secretase complex as well as interacting with substrates of the gamma secretase complex prior to their proteolytic processing. Polymorphisms in a promoter region of this gene have been associated with an increased risk for developing sporadic Alzheimer's disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple protein-coding and non-protein-coding transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000071564	 This gene encodes a member of the E protein (class I) family of helix-loop-helix transcription factors. E proteins activate transcription by binding to regulatory E-box sequences on target genes as heterodimers or homodimers, and are inhibited by heterodimerization with inhibitor of DNA-binding (class IV) helix-loop-helix proteins. E proteins play a critical role in lymphopoiesis, and the encoded protein is required for B and T lymphocyte development. Deletion of this gene or diminished activity of the encoded protein may play a role in lymphoid malignancies. This gene is also involved in several chromosomal translocations that are associated with lymphoid malignancies including pre-B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (t(1;19), with PBX1), childhood leukemia (t(19;19), with TFPT) and acute leukemia (t(12;19), with ZNF384). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 9. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000127080	 The protein encoded by this gene is a kinase that phosphorylates position 2 of inositol-1,3,4,5,6-pentakisphosphate to form inositol-1,2,3,4,5,6-hexakisphosphate (InsP6). InsP6 has a variety of functions, including stimulation of DNA repair, endocytosis, and mRNA export. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000204376	 This gene is a member of the XAGE subfamily, which belongs to the GAGE family. The GAGE genes are expressed in a variety of tumors and in some fetal and reproductive tissues. This gene is strongly expressed in Ewing's sarcoma, alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma and normal testis. The protein encoded by this gene contains a nuclear localization signal and shares a sequence similarity with other GAGE/PAGE proteins. Because of the expression pattern and the sequence similarity, this protein also belongs to a family of CT (cancer-testis) antigens. Alternative splicing of this gene, in addition to alternative transcription start sites, results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000104899	 Anti-Mullerian hormone is a member of the transforming growth factor-beta gene family which mediates male sexual differentiation. Anti-Mullerian hormone causes the regression of Mullerian ducts which would otherwise differentiate into the uterus and fallopian tubes. Some mutations in the anti-Mullerian hormone result in persistent Mullerian duct syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000049759	 This gene encodes a member of the Nedd4 family of HECT domain E3 ubiquitin ligases. HECT domain E3 ubiquitin ligases transfer ubiquitin from E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes to protein substrates, thus targeting specific proteins for lysosomal degradation. The encoded protein mediates the ubiquitination of multiple target substrates and plays a critical role in epithelial sodium transport by regulating the cell surface expression of the epithelial sodium channel, ENaC. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with essential hypertension. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000131051	 This gene encodes a member of the U2AF65 family of proteins. The encoded protein is found in the nucleus, where it co-localizes with core spliceosomal proteins. It has been shown to play a role in both steroid hormone receptor-mediated transcription and alternative splicing, and it is also a transcriptional coregulator of the viral oncoprotein v-Rel. Multiple transcript variants have been observed for this gene. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome X. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000214548	 This gene is a maternally expressed imprinted gene. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been transcribed from this gene and all of them are long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs). This gene is expressed in many normal tissues, but its expression is lost in multiple cancer cell lines of various tissue origins. It inhibits tumor cell proliferation in vitro. It also interacts with the tumor suppressor p53, and regulates p53 target gene expression. Its deletion enhances angiogenesis in vivo. Many experimental evidences demonstrate that this gene is a lncRNA tumor suppressor. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000185933	 This gene encodes a calcium channel that plays a role in processing of amyloid-beta precursor protein. A polymorphism at this locus has been reported to be associated with susceptibility to late-onset Alzheimer's disease in some populations, but the pathogenicity of this polymorphism is unclear.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000139053	 This gene encodes the inhibitory (or gamma) subunit of the cone-specific cGMP phosphodiesterase, which is a tetramer composed of two catalytic chains (alpha and beta), and two inhibitory chains (gamma). It is specifically expressed in the retina, and is involved in the transmission and amplification of the visual signal. Mutations in this gene are associated with retinal cone dystrophy type 3A (RCD3A). [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000137491	 This locus encodes a member of the organic anion-transporting polypeptide family of membrane proteins. The protein encoded by this locus may function in regulation of placental uptake of sulfated steroids. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000106410	 This homeobox gene encodes a transcription factor that is thought to play a role in oogenesis. In mice, it is essential for folliculogenesis and regulation of oocyte-specific genes. Defects in this gene result in premature ovarian failure type 5.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000101958	 The glycine receptor consists of two subunits, alpha and beta, and acts as a pentamer. The protein encoded by this gene is an alpha subunit and can bind strychnine. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000162733	 Receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) play a key role in the communication of cells with their microenvironment. These molecules are involved in the regulation of cell growth, differentiation, and metabolism. In several cases the biochemical mechanism by which RTKs transduce signals across the membrane has been shown to be ligand induced receptor oligomerization and subsequent intracellular phosphorylation. This autophosphorylation leads to phosphorylation of cytosolic targets as well as association with other molecules, which are involved in pleiotropic effects of signal transduction. RTKs have a tripartite structure with extracellular, transmembrane, and cytoplasmic regions. This gene encodes a member of a novel subclass of RTKs and contains a distinct extracellular region encompassing a factor VIII-like domain. Alternative splicing in the 5' UTR results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000094796	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. As a type I hair keratin, it is an acidic protein which heterodimerizes with type II keratins to form hair and nails. The type I hair keratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21 and have the same direction of transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000006059	 This gene encodes a member of the keratin gene family. This gene is one of multiple type I hair keratin genes that are clustered in a region of chromosome 17q12-q21 and have the same direction of transcription. As a type I hair keratin, the encoded protein is an acidic protein which heterodimerizes with type II keratins to form hair and nails. There are two isoforms of this protein, encoded by two separate genes, keratin 33A and keratin 33B. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000164342	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. TLRs are highly conserved from Drosophila to humans and share structural and functional similarities. They recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that are expressed on infectious agents, and mediate the production of cytokines necessary for the development of effective immunity. The various TLRs exhibit different patterns of expression. This receptor is most abundantly expressed in placenta and pancreas, and is restricted to the dendritic subpopulation of the leukocytes. It recognizes dsRNA associated with viral infection, and induces the activation of NF-kappaB and the production of type I interferons. It may thus play a role in host defense against viruses. Use of alternative polyadenylation sites to generate different length transcripts has been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000141736	 This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor family of receptor tyrosine kinases. This protein has no ligand binding domain of its own and therefore cannot bind growth factors. However, it does bind tightly to other ligand-bound EGF receptor family members to form a heterodimer, stabilizing ligand binding and enhancing kinase-mediated activation of downstream signalling pathways, such as those involving mitogen-activated protein kinase and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase. Allelic variations at amino acid positions 654 and 655 of isoform a (positions 624 and 625 of isoform b) have been reported, with the most common allele, Ile654/Ile655, shown here. Amplification and/or overexpression of this gene has been reported in numerous cancers, including breast and ovarian tumors. Alternative splicing results in several additional transcript variants, some encoding different isoforms and others that have not been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000111300	 This gene encodes the auxiliary subunit of the heteromeric N-terminal acetyltransferase B complex. This complex acetylates methionine residues that are followed by acidic or asparagine residues.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000165915	 This gene encodes a member of the LIV-1 subfamily of the ZIP transporter family. The encoded transmembrane protein functions as a zinc transporter. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the spondylocheiro dysplastic form of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000169105	 This gene encodes a member of the HNK-1 family of sulfotransferases. The encoded protein transfers sulfate to the C-4 hydroxyl of N-acetylgalactosamine residues in dermatan sulfate. Mutations in this gene have been associated with adducted thumb-clubfoot syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000169379	 This gene encodes a member of the ADP-ribosylation factor-like family. The encoded protein is a small GTPase that contains both N-terminal and C-terminal guanine nucleotide-binding motifs. This protein is localized in the cilia and plays a role in cilia formation and in maintenance of cilia. Mutations in this gene are the cause of Joubert syndrome 8. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000167986	 The protein encoded by this gene is the large subunit (p127) of the heterodimeric DNA damage-binding (DDB) complex while another protein (p48) forms the small subunit. This protein complex functions in nucleotide-excision repair and binds to DNA following UV damage. Defective activity of this complex causes the repair defect in patients with xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group E (XPE) - an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by photosensitivity and early onset of carcinomas. However, it remains for mutation analysis to demonstrate whether the defect in XPE patients is in this gene or the gene encoding the small subunit. In addition, Best vitelliform mascular dystrophy is mapped to the same region as this gene on 11q, but no sequence alternations of this gene are demonstrated in Best disease patients. The protein encoded by this gene also functions as an adaptor molecule for the cullin 4 (CUL4) ubiquitin E3 ligase complex by facilitating the binding of substrates to this complex and the ubiquitination of proteins. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000214960	 This gene encodes a 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate cytidylyltransferase-like protein. Mutations in this gene are the cause of Walker-Warburg syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000139734	 This gene encodes a member of the diaphanous subfamily of the formin family. Members of this family are involved in actin remodeling and regulate cell movement and adhesion. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant auditory neuropathy 1. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]. 
ENSG00000213892	 The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted glycoprotein that in mouse interacts with tectorial membrane proteins in the inner ear. The encoded adhesion protein is found in cochlear outer hair cells and appears to be important for proper hearing over an extended frequency range. Defects in this gene likely are a cause of non-syndromic autosomal dominant hearing loss. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000140093	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the serpin family. It is predominantly expressed in the liver and secreted in plasma. It inhibits the activity of coagulation factors Xa and XIa in the presence of protein Z, calcium and phospholipid. Mutations in this gene are associated with venous thrombosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000087085	 Acetylcholinesterase hydrolyzes the neurotransmitter, acetylcholine at neuromuscular junctions and brain cholinergic synapses, and thus terminates signal transmission. It is also found on the red blood cell membranes, where it constitutes the Yt blood group antigen. Acetylcholinesterase exists in multiple molecular forms which possess similar catalytic properties, but differ in their oligomeric assembly and mode of cell attachment to the cell surface. It is encoded by the single ACHE gene, and the structural diversity in the gene products arises from alternative mRNA splicing, and post-translational associations of catalytic and structural subunits. The major form of acetylcholinesterase found in brain, muscle and other tissues is the hydrophilic species, which forms disulfide-linked oligomers with collagenous, or lipid-containing structural subunits. The other, alternatively spliced form, expressed primarily in the erythroid tissues, differs at the C-terminal end, and contains a cleavable hydrophobic peptide with a GPI-anchor site. It associates with the membranes through the phosphoinositide (PI) moieties added post-translationally. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000221978	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cyclin family. Through its interaction with several proteins, such as RNA polymerase II, splicing factors, and cyclin-dependent kinases, this protein functions as a regulator of the pre-mRNA splicing process, as well as in inducing apoptosis by modulating the expression of apoptotic and antiapoptotic proteins. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000117682	 The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes cis-prenyl chain elongation to produce the polyprenyl backbone of dolichol, a glycosyl carrier lipid required for the biosynthesis of several classes of glycoproteins. Mutations in this gene are associated with retinitis pigmentosa type 59. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000196482	 This gene encodes a member of the estrogen receptor-related receptor (ESRR) family, which belongs to the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily. All members of the ESRR family share an almost identical DNA binding domain, which is composed of two C4-type zinc finger motifs. The ESRR members are orphan nuclear receptors; they bind to the estrogen response element and steroidogenic factor 1 response element, and activate genes controlled by both response elements in the absence of any ligands. The ESRR family is closely related to the estrogen receptor (ER) family. They share target genes, co-regulators and promoters, and by targeting the same set of genes, the ESRRs seem to interfere with the ER-mediated estrogen response in various ways. It has been reported that the family member encoded by this gene functions as a transcriptional activator of DNA cytosine-5-methyltransferases 1 (Dnmt1) expression by direct binding to its response elements in the DNMT1 promoters, modulates cell proliferation and estrogen signaling in breast cancer, and negatively regulates bone morphogenetic protein 2-induced osteoblast differentiation and bone formation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified, which mainly differ at the 5' end and some of which encode protein isoforms differing in the N-terminal region. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000060237	 This gene encodes a member of the WNK subfamily of serine/threonine protein kinases. The encoded protein may be a key regulator of blood pressure by controlling the transport of sodium and chloride ions. Mutations in this gene have been associated with pseudohypoaldosteronism type II and hereditary sensory neuropathy type II. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described but the full-length nature of all of them has yet to be determined.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000137764	 The protein encoded by this gene is a dual specificity protein kinase that belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family. This kinase specifically interacts with and activates MAPK7/ERK5. This kinase itself can be phosphorylated and activated by MAP3K3/MEKK3, as well as by atypical protein kinase C isoforms (aPKCs). The signal cascade mediated by this kinase is involved in growth factor stimulated cell proliferation and muscle cell differentiation. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]. 
ENSG00000072736	 The product of this gene is a member of the nuclear factors of activated T cells DNA-binding transcription complex. This complex consists of at least two components: a preexisting cytosolic component that translocates to the nucleus upon T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation and an inducible nuclear component. Other members of this family participate to form this complex also. The product of this gene plays a role in the regulation of gene expression in T cells and immature thymocytes. Several transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]. 
ENSG00000198932	 This gene encodes a member of the GPRASP (G protein-coupled receptor associated sorting protein) family. The protein may modulate lysosomal sorting and functional down-regulation of a variety of G-protein coupled receptors. It targets receptors for degradation in lysosomes. The receptors interacting with this sorting protein include D2 dopamine receptor (DRD2), delta opioid receptor (OPRD1), beta-2 adrenergic receptor (ADRB2), D4 dopamine receptor (DRD4) and cannabinoid 1 receptor (CB1R). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000173432	 This gene encodes a member of the serum amyloid A family of apolipoproteins. The encoded protein is a major acute phase protein that is highly expressed in response to inflammation and tissue injury. This protein also plays an important role in HDL metabolism and cholesterol homeostasis. High levels of this protein are associated with chronic inflammatory diseases including atherosclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, Alzheimer's disease and Crohn's disease. This protein may also be a potential biomarker for certain tumors. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 11.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000136141	 This gene encodes a protein with a leucine-rich repeat and a calponin homology domain. Polymorphism in this gene may be associated with susceptibililty to knee osteoarthritis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000107882	 The Hedgehog signaling pathway plays an important role in early human development. The pathway is a signaling cascade that plays a role in pattern formation and cellular proliferation during development. This gene encodes a negative regulator of the hedgehog signaling pathway. Defects in this gene are a cause of medulloblastoma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000154358	 The obscurin gene spans more than 150 kb, contains over 80 exons and encodes a protein of approximately 720 kDa. The encoded protein contains 68 Ig domains, 2 fibronectin domains, 1 calcium/calmodulin-binding domain, 1 RhoGEF domain with an associated PH domain, and 2 serine-threonine kinase domains. This protein belongs to the family of giant sacromeric signaling proteins that includes titin and nebulin, and may have a role in the organization of myofibrils during assembly and may mediate interactions between the sarcoplasmic reticulum and myofibrils. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113522	 The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad50, a protein involved in DNA double-strand break repair. This protein forms a complex with MRE11 and NBS1. The protein complex binds to DNA and displays numerous enzymatic activities that are required for nonhomologous joining of DNA ends. This protein, cooperating with its partners, is important for DNA double-strand break repair, cell cycle checkpoint activation, telomere maintenance, and meiotic recombination. Knockout studies of the mouse homolog suggest this gene is essential for cell growth and viability. Mutations in this gene are the cause of Nijmegen breakage syndrome-like disorder.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000124257	 This human gene represents a non-protein coding RNA due to the presence of an upstream open reading frame (uORF). The uORF is predicted to interfere with translation of the longest ORF, and translation of the uORF renders the transcript a candidate for nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). The uORF is conserved in primates and some other mammals, but not in mouse and rat. Therefore, the mouse (GeneID:415115) or rat (GeneID: 311633) gene encodes a functional protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000165392	 This gene encodes a member of the RecQ subfamily and the DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) subfamily of DNA and RNA helicases. DNA helicases are involved in many aspects of DNA metabolism, including transcription, replication, recombination, and repair. This protein contains a nuclear localization signal in the C-terminus and shows a predominant nucleolar localization. It possesses an intrinsic 3' to 5' DNA helicase activity, and is also a 3' to 5' exonuclease. Based on interactions between this protein and Ku70/80 heterodimer in DNA end processing, this protein may be involved in the repair of double strand DNA breaks. Defects in this gene are the cause of Werner syndrome, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by premature aging. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000170100	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the krueppel C2H2-type zinc-finger protein family, and it contains one KRAB domain and eighteen C2H2-type zinc fingers. This gene is a candidate gene for autism and variable cognitive impairment in the 16q24.3 microdeletion syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000143951	 This gene encodes a cytoplasmic WD40 repeat protein. A similar gene in frogs encodes a planar cell polarity protein that plays a critical role in collective cell movement and ciliogenesis by mediating septin localization. Mutations in this gene are associated with Bardet-Biedl syndrome 15 and may also play a role in Meckel-Gruber syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000076944	 This gene encodes a member of the STXBP/unc-18/SEC1 family. The encoded protein is involved in intracellular trafficking, control of SNARE (soluble NSF attachment protein receptor) complex assembly, and the release of cytotoxic granules by natural killer cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000153113	 The protein encoded by this gene is an endogenous calpain (calcium-dependent cysteine protease) inhibitor. It consists of an N-terminal domain L and four repetitive calpain-inhibition domains (domains 1-4), and it is involved in the proteolysis of amyloid precursor protein. The calpain/calpastatin system is involved in numerous membrane fusion events, such as neural vesicle exocytosis and platelet and red-cell aggregation. The encoded protein is also thought to affect the expression levels of genes encoding structural or regulatory proteins. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]. 
ENSG00000095397	 This gene is thought to function in the organization and stabilization of sterocilia elongation and actin cystoskeletal assembly, based on studies of the related mouse gene. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness and Usher Syndrome. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000136960	 The protein encoded by this gene functions as both a phosphodiesterase, which cleaves phosphodiester bonds at the 5' end of oligonucleotides, and a phospholipase, which catalyzes production of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) in extracellular fluids. LPA evokes growth factor-like responses including stimulation of cell proliferation and chemotaxis. This gene product stimulates the motility of tumor cells and has angiogenic properties, and its expression is upregulated in several kinds of carcinomas. The gene product is secreted and further processed to make the biologically active form. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]. 
ENSG00000012048	 This gene encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a role in maintaining genomic stability, and it also acts as a tumor suppressor. The encoded protein combines with other tumor suppressors, DNA damage sensors, and signal transducers to form a large multi-subunit protein complex known as the BRCA1-associated genome surveillance complex (BASC). This gene product associates with RNA polymerase II, and through the C-terminal domain, also interacts with histone deacetylase complexes. This protein thus plays a role in transcription, DNA repair of double-stranded breaks, and recombination. Mutations in this gene are responsible for approximately 40% of inherited breast cancers and more than 80% of inherited breast and ovarian cancers. Alternative splicing plays a role in modulating the subcellular localization and physiological function of this gene. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants, some of which are disease-associated mutations, have been described for this gene, but the full-length natures of only some of these variants has been described. A related pseudogene, which is also located on chromosome 17, has been identified. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000078747	 This gene encodes a member of the Nedd4 family of HECT domain E3 ubiquitin ligases. HECT domain E3 ubiquitin ligases transfer ubiquitin from E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes to protein substrates, thus targeting specific proteins for lysosomal degradation. The encoded protein plays a role in multiple cellular processes including erythroid and lymphoid cell differentiation and the regulation of immune responses. Mutations in this gene are a cause of syndromic multisystem autoimmune disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000059145	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AL032819.32, AL031721.1 and AL031709.12. This sequence is a reference standard in the RefSeqGene project. 
ENSG00000178149	 The exact function of this gene is not known. It encodes a protein with a DALR anticodon binding domain similar to that of class Ia aminoacyl tRNA synthetases. This gene is located in a cluster of genes (with a complex sense-anti-sense genome architecture) on chromosome 3, and contains two micro RNA (miRNA) precursors (mir-425 and mir-191) in one of its introns. Preferential expression of this gene (the miRNAs and other genes in the cluster) in testis suggests a role of this gene in spermatogenesis (PMID:19906709). [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000150764	 The protein encoded by this gene is a positive regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway and interacts with AXIN1, DVL2, and MAP3K1. The encoded protein is found associated with gamma tubulin at the centrosome. Three transcript variants, two protein-coding and the other non-protein coding, have been found for this gene. The longer isoform also associates with actin stress fibers while the shorter isoform does not. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000159884	 This gene encodes a membrane protein which contains a coiled-coil domain in the central region. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]. 
ENSG00000167984	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytosolic regulator of innate immunity. The encoded protein contains several leucine-rich repeat domains and may be involved in regulating T-cell activation. Two transcript variants, one protein coding and the other non-protein coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]. 
ENSG00000088888	 This gene encodes an intermediary protein necessary in the virus-triggered beta interferon signaling pathways. It is required for activation of transcription factors which regulate expression of beta interferon and contributes to antiviral immunity. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000138674	 The protein encoded by this gene is similar to yeast Sec31 protein. Yeast Sec31 protein is known to be a component of the COPII protein complex which is responsible for vesicle budding from endoplasmic reticulum (ER). This protein was found to colocalize with SEC13, one of the other components of COPII , in the subcellular structures corresponding to the vesicle transport function. An immunodepletion experiment confirmed that this protein is required for ER-Golgi transport. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000136811	 The outer dense fibers are cytoskeletal structures that surround the axoneme in the middle piece and principal piece of the sperm tail. The fibers function in maintaining the elastic structure and recoil of the sperm tail as well as in protecting the tail from shear forces during epididymal transport and ejaculation. Defects in the outer dense fibers lead to abnormal sperm morphology and infertility. This gene encodes one of the major outer dense fiber proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. The longer transcripts, also known as 'Cenexins', encode proteins with a C-terminal extension that are differentially targeted to somatic centrioles and thought to be crucial for the formation of microtubule organizing centers. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]. 
ENSG00000158711	 This gene is a member of the Ets family of transcription factors and of the ternary complex factor (TCF) subfamily. Proteins of the TCF subfamily form a ternary complex by binding to the the serum response factor and the serum reponse element in the promoter of the c-fos proto-oncogene. The protein encoded by this gene is phosphorylated by the kinases, MAPK1 and MAPK8. Several transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000111087	 This gene encodes a member of the Kruppel family of zinc finger proteins. The encoded transcription factor is activated by the sonic hedgehog signal transduction cascade and regulates stem cell proliferation. The activity and nuclear localization of this protein is negatively regulated by p53 in an inhibitory loop. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]. 
ENSG00000128487	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cytospin-A family. It is localized in the nucleus, and highly expressed in testis and some cancer cell lines. A chromosomal translocation involving this gene and platelet-derived growth factor receptor, beta gene (PDGFRB) may be a cause of juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000141519	 This gene encodes a protein that is necessary for motile cilia function. It functions in correct left-right axis formation by regulating the assembly of the inner dynein arm and the dynein regulatory complexes, which control ciliary beat. Mutations in this gene cause ciliary dyskinesia type 15, a disorder due to defects in cilia motility. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000122482	 The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor that may play a role in eye development. Defects in this gene have been associated with high myopia. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000140299	 This gene is a member of the BCL2/adenovirus E1B 19 kd-interacting protein (BNIP) family. It interacts with the E1B 19 kDa protein, which protects cells from virally-induced cell death. The encoded protein also interacts with E1B 19 kDa-like sequences of BCL2, another apoptotic protector. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000117020	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the AKT, also called PKB,  serine/threonine protein kinase family. AKT kinases are known to be regulators of cell signaling in response to insulin and growth factors. They are involved in a wide variety of biological processes including cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, tumorigenesis, as well as glycogen synthesis and glucose uptake. This kinase has been shown to be stimulated by platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), insulin, and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1). Alternatively splice transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137177	 This gene encodes a member of the kinesin family of microtubule-based motor proteins that function in the positioning of endosomes. This family member can direct mannose-6-phosphate receptor-containing vesicles from the trans-Golgi network to the plasma membrane, and it is necessary for the steady-state distribution of late endosomes/lysosomes. It is also required for the translocation of FYVE-CENT and TTC19 from the centrosome to the midbody during cytokinesis, and it plays a role in melanosome maturation. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000081014	 This gene encodes a member of the adaptor complexes large subunit protein family. These proteins are components of the heterotetrameric adaptor protein complexes, which play important roles in the secretory and endocytic pathways by mediating vesicle formation and sorting of integral membrane proteins. The encoded protein is a large subunit of adaptor protein complex-4, which is associated with both clathrin- and nonclathrin-coated vesicles. Disruption of this gene may be associated with cerebral palsy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]. 
ENSG00000106605	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the biliverdin reductase family, members of which catalyze the conversion of biliverdin to bilirubin in the presence of NADPH or NADH. Mutations in this gene are associated with hyperbiliverdinemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000163453	 This gene encodes a member of the insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-binding protein (IGFBP) family. IGFBPs bind IGFs with high affinity, and regulate IGF availability in body fluids and tissues and modulate IGF binding to its receptors. This protein binds IGF-I and IGF-II with relatively low affinity, and belongs to a subfamily of low-affinity IGFBPs. It also stimulates prostacyclin production and cell adhesion. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene, and one variant has been associated with retinal arterial macroaneurysm (PMID:21835307). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000145103	 This gene encodes a protein that contains an immunoglobulin-like domain. The encoded protein may function as a multimeric receptor at the cell surface. The expression of this gene may be a diagnostic marker for cancer progression. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple protein isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]. 
ENSG00000124172	 This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel consists of three main subunits (a, b, c). This gene encodes the epsilon subunit of the catalytic core. Two pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 4 and 13. Read-through transcripts that include exons from this gene are expressed from the upstream gene SLMO2.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000204655	 The product of this gene is a membrane protein expressed on the oligodendrocyte cell surface and the outermost surface of myelin sheaths. Due to this localization, it is a primary target antigen involved in immune-mediated demyelination. This protein may be involved in completion and maintenance of the myelin sheath and in cell-cell communication. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000197746	 This gene encodes a highly conserved glycoprotein which is a precursor for 4 cleavage products: saposins A, B, C, and D. Each domain of the precursor protein is approximately 80 amino acid residues long with nearly identical placement of cysteine residues and glycosylation sites. Saposins A-D localize primarily to the lysosomal compartment where they facilitate the catabolism of glycosphingolipids with short oligosaccharide groups. The precursor protein exists both as a secretory protein and as an integral membrane protein and has neurotrophic activities. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Gaucher disease, Tay-Sachs disease, and metachromatic leukodystrophy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000129422	 This gene encodes a protein which contains a C-terminal domain able to interact with the angiotension II (AT2) receptor and a large coiled-coil region allowing dimerization. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. One of the transcript variants has been shown to encode a mitochondrial protein that acts as a tumor suppressor and partcipates in AT2 signaling pathways. Other variants may encode nuclear or transmembrane proteins but it has not been determined whether they also participate in AT2 signaling pathways. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000204231	 This gene encodes a member of the retinoid X receptor (RXR) family of nuclear receptors which are involved in mediating the effects of retinoic acid (RA). The encoded protein forms homodimers with the retinoic acid, thyroid hormone, and vitamin D receptors, increasing both DNA binding and transcriptional function on their respective response elements. This gene lies within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II region on chromosome 6. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000011600	 This gene encodes a transmembrane signaling polypeptide which contains an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) in its cytoplasmic domain. The encoded protein may associate with the killer-cell inhibitory receptor (KIR) family of membrane glycoproteins and may act as an activating signal transduction element. This protein may bind zeta-chain (TCR) associated protein kinase 70kDa (ZAP-70) and spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) and play a role in signal transduction, bone modeling, brain myelination, and inflammation. Mutations within this gene have been associated with polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy (PLOSL), also known as Nasu-Hakola disease. Its putative receptor, triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), also causes PLOSL. Multiple alternative transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000105647	 Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) is a lipid kinase that phosphorylates phosphatidylinositol and similar compounds, creating second messengers important in growth signaling pathways. PI3K functions as a heterodimer of a regulatory and a catalytic subunit. The protein encoded by this gene is a regulatory component of PI3K. Two transcript variants, one protein coding and the other non-protein coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000103507	 The branched-chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase complex (BCKD) is an important regulator of the valine, leucine, and isoleucine catabolic pathways. The protein encoded by this gene is found in the mitochondrion, where it phosphorylates and inactivates BCKD. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000138035	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the evolutionary conserved polynucleotide phosphorylase family comprised of phosphate dependent 3'-to-5' exoribonucleases implicated in RNA processing and degradation. This enzyme is predominantly localized in the mitochondrial intermembrane space and is involved in import of RNA to mitochondria. Mutations in this gene have been associated with combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency-13 and autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness-70. Related pseudogenes are found on chromosomes 3 and 7. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000102104	 This gene encodes an extracellular protein that plays a crucial role in the cellular organization of the retina. The encoded protein is assembled and secreted from photoreceptors and bipolar cells as a homo-oligomeric protein complex. Mutations in this gene are responsible for X-linked retinoschisis, a common, early-onset macular degeneration in males that results in a splitting of the inner layers of the retina and severe loss in vision. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000188603	 This gene encodes a protein that is involved in lysosomal function. Mutations in this, as well as other neuronal ceroid-lipofuscinosis (CLN) genes, cause neurodegenerative diseases commonly known as Batten disease or collectively known as neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs). Many alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000113525	 The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that acts as a growth and differentiation factor for both B cells and eosinophils. This cytokine is a main regulator of eosinopoiesis, eosinophil maturation and activation. The elevated production of this cytokine is reported to be related to asthma or hypereosinophilic syndromes. The receptor of this cytokine is a heterodimer, whose beta subunit is shared with the receptors for interleukine 3 (IL3) and colony stimulating factor 2 (CSF2/GM-CSF). This gene, together with those for interleukin 4 (IL4), interleukin 13 (IL13), and CSF2, form a cytokine gene cluster on chromosome 5. This cytokine, IL4, and IL13 are found to be regulated coordinately by long-range regulatory elements spread over 120 kilobases on chromosome 5q31. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182372	 This gene encodes a transmembrane protein belonging to a family of proteins containing TLC domains, which are postulated to function in lipid synthesis, transport, or sensing. The protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and may recycle between the ER and ER-Golgi intermediate compartment. Mutations in this gene are associated with progressive epilepsy with mental retardation (EMPR), which is a subtype of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL). Patients with mutations in this gene have altered levels of sphingolipid and phospholipids in the brain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000088926	 This gene encodes coagulation factor XI of the blood coagulation cascade. This protein is present in plasma as a zymogen, which is a unique plasma coagulation enzyme because it exists as a homodimer consisting of two identical polypeptide chains linked by disulfide bonds. During activation of the plasma factor XI, an internal peptide bond is cleaved by factor XIIa (or XII) in each of the two chains, resulting in activated factor XIa, a serine protease composed of two heavy and two light chains held together by disulfide bonds. This activated plasma factor XI triggers the middle phase of the intrisic pathway of blood coagulation by activating factor IX. Defects in this factor lead to Rosenthal syndrome, a blood coagulation abnormality. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000182732	 This gene encodes a member of the RGS (regulator of G protein signaling) family of proteins, which are defined by the presence of a RGS domain that confers the GTPase-activating activity of these proteins toward certain G alpha subunits. This protein also belongs to a subfamily of RGS proteins characterized by the presence of DEP and GGL domains, the latter a G beta 5-interacting domain. The RGS proteins negatively regulate G protein signaling, and may modulate neuronal, cardiovascular, lymphocytic activities, and cancer risk. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms with long or short N-terminal domains, complete or incomplete GGL domains, and distinct C-terminal domains, have been described for this gene, however, the full-length nature of some of these variants is not known.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000127124	 This gene encodes a member of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 enhancer-binding protein family. Members of this protein family contain multiple zinc finger and acid-rich (ZAS) domains and serine-threonine rich regions. This protein acts as a transcription factor and is able to regulate nuclear factor kappaB-mediated transcription by binding the kappaB motif in target genes. This protein also binds the recombination signal sequence that flanks the V, D, and J regions of immunoglobulin and T-cell receptors. Alternate splicing results in both coding and non-coding transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000197361	 This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family. This F-box protein interacts with S-phase kinase-associated protein 1A and cullin in order to form SCF complexes which function as ubiquitin ligases.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000150347	 This gene encodes a member of the AT-rich interaction domain (ARID) family of DNA binding proteins. The encoded protein forms a histone H3K9Me2 demethylase complex with PHD finger protein 2 and regulates the transcription of target genes involved in adipogenesis and liver development. This gene also plays a role in cell growth and differentiation of B-lymphocyte progenitors, and single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene are associated with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000184647	 This gene encodes a member of a group of membrane-anchored chymotrypsin (S1)-like serine proteases. The enocoded protein is primarily expressed in the Leydig and Sertoli cells of the testis and may be involved in male fertility. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]. 
ENSG00000205981	 The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be part of a complex involved in the ATP-dependent transport of transit peptide-containing proteins from the inner cell membrane to the mitochondrial matrix. Defects in this gene are a cause of 3-methylglutaconic aciduria type 5 (MGA5), also known as dilated cardiomyopathy with ataxia (DCMA). Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1, 2, 6, 10, 14 and 19. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]. 
ENSG00000184009	 Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various types of cell motility, and maintenance of the cytoskeleton. In vertebrates, three main groups of actin isoforms, alpha, beta and gamma have been identified. The alpha actins are found in muscle tissues and are a major constituent of the contractile apparatus. The beta and gamma actins co-exist in most cell types as components of the cytoskeleton, and as mediators of internal cell motility. Actin, gamma 1, encoded by this gene, is a cytoplasmic actin found in non-muscle cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with DFNA20/26, a subtype of autosomal dominant non-syndromic sensorineural progressive hearing loss. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]. 
ENSG00000253729	 This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of the DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK). It functions with the Ku70/Ku80 heterodimer protein in DNA double strand break repair and recombination. The protein encoded is a member of the PI3/PI4-kinase family.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000256269	 This gene encodes a member of the hydroxymethylbilane synthase superfamily. The encoded protein is the third enzyme of the heme biosynthetic pathway and catalyzes the head to tail condensation of four porphobilinogen molecules into the linear hydroxymethylbilane. Mutations in this gene are associated with the autosomal dominant disease acute intermittent porphyria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000169692	 This gene encodes a member of the 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase family. The protein is located within the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and converts lysophosphatidic acid to phosphatidic acid, the second step in de novo phospholipid biosynthesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital generalized lipodystrophy (CGL), or Berardinelli-Seip syndrome, a disease characterized by a near absence of adipose tissue and severe insulin resistance. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000171608	 Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) phosphorylate inositol lipids and are involved in the immune response. The protein encoded by this gene is a class I PI3K found primarily in leukocytes. Like other class I PI3Ks (p110-alpha p110-beta, and p110-gamma), the encoded protein binds p85 adapter proteins and GTP-bound RAS. However, unlike the other class I PI3Ks, this protein phosphorylates itself, not p85 protein.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]. 
ENSG00000167774	 This gene encodes a subunit of NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I), which is a multiprotein complex located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. Complex I functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000198732	 This gene encodes a multi-domain secreted protein that may have a critical role in ocular and limb development. Mutations in this gene are associated with microphthalmia and limb anomalies. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000135318	 The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane protein that catalyzes the conversion of extracellular nucleotides to membrane-permeable nucleosides. The encoded protein is used as a determinant of lymphocyte differentiation. Defects in this gene can lead to the calcification of joints and arteries. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000037474	 This gene encodes a methyltransferase that catalyzes the methylation of cytosine to 5-methylcytosine (m5C) at position 34 of intron-containing tRNA(Leu)(CAA) precursors. This modification is necessary to stabilize the anticodon-codon pairing and correctly translate the mRNA. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]. 
ENSG00000172179	 This gene encodes the anterior pituitary hormone prolactin. This secreted hormone is a growth regulator for many tissues, including cells of the immune system. It may also play a role in cell survival by suppressing apoptosis, and it is essential for lactation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000207571	 REVIEWED REFSEQ: This record has been curated by NCBI staff. The reference sequence was derived from AC012531.11 and AC023794.37. 
ENSG00000175264	 This locus encodes a member of the keratin sulfotransferase family of proteins. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the sulfation of the proteoglycan keratin. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000167653	 This gene encodes a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored cell membrane glycoprotein. In addition to being highly expressed in the prostate it is also expressed in the bladder, placenta, colon, kidney, and stomach. This gene is up-regulated in a large proportion of prostate cancers and is also detected in cancers of the bladder and pancreas. This gene includes a polymorphism that results in an upstream start codon in some individuals; this polymorphism is thought to be associated with a risk for certain gastric and bladder cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000141556	 Cofactor D is one of four proteins (cofactors A, D, E, and C) involved in the pathway leading to correctly folded beta-tubulin from folding intermediates. Cofactors A and D are believed to play a role in capturing and stabilizing beta-tubulin intermediates in a quasi-native confirmation. Cofactor E binds to the cofactor D/beta-tubulin complex; interaction with cofactor C then causes the release of beta-tubulin polypeptides that are committed to the native state. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000157152	 This gene is a member of the synapsin gene family. Synapsins encode neuronal phosphoproteins which associate with the cytoplasmic surface of synaptic vesicles. Family members are characterized by common protein domains, and they are implicated in synaptogenesis and the modulation of neurotransmitter release, suggesting a potential role in several neuropsychiatric diseases. This member of the synapsin family encodes a neuron-specific phosphoprotein that selectively binds to small synaptic vesicles in the presynaptic nerve terminal. The TIMP4 gene is located within an intron of this gene and is transcribed in the opposite direction. Mutations in this gene may be associated with abnormal presynaptic function and schizophrenia. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcripts. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000138303	 This gene encodes a subunit of the activating signal cointegrator 1 (ASC-1) complex. The ASC-1 complex is a transcriptional coactivator that plays an important role in gene transactivation by multiple transcription factors including activating protein 1 (AP-1), nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kB) and serum response factor (SRF). The encoded protein contains an N-terminal KH-type RNA-binding motif which is required for AP-1 transactivation by the ASC-1 complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with Barrett esophagus and esophageal adenocarcinoma. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]. 
ENSG00000115317	 This gene encodes a serine protease. The protein has been localized in the endoplasmic reticulum and interacts with an alternatively spliced form of mitogen-activated protein kinase 14. The protein has also been localized to the mitochondria with release to the cytosol following apoptotic stimulus. The protein is thought to induce apoptosis by binding the apoptosis inhibitory protein baculoviral IAP repeat-containing 4. Nuclear localization of this protein has also been observed. Alternate splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Additional transcript variants have been described, but their full-length sequences have not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167535	 This gene encodes a regulatory beta subunit of the voltage-dependent calcium channel. Beta subunits are composed of five domains, which contribute to the regulation of surface expression and gating of calcium channels and may also play a role in the regulation of transcription factors and calcium transport. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000116001	 The product encoded by this gene is a member of a RNA-binding protein family and possesses nucleolytic activity against cytotoxic lymphocyte (CTL) target cells. It has been suggested that this protein may be involved in the induction of apoptosis as it preferentially recognizes poly(A) homopolymers and induces DNA fragmentation in CTL targets. The major granule-associated species is a 15-kDa protein that is thought to be derived from the carboxyl terminus of the 40-kDa product by proteolytic processing. Alternative splicing resulting in different isoforms of this gene product has been described in the literature. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000155093	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP possesses an extracellular region, a single transmembrane region, and a single intracellular catalytic domain, and thus represents a receptor-type PTP. The catalytic domain of this PTP is most closely related to PTPRN/IA-2beta. This PTP and PTPRN are both found to be major autoantigens associated with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene, which encode distinct proteins, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166579	 This gene encodes a coiled-coil protein that plays a role in multiple processes including cytoskeletal organization, cell signaling and neuron migration, outgrowth and maintenance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome X. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]. 
ENSG00000116161	 The protein encoded by this gene is a calcyclin binding protein. It may be involved in calcium-dependent ubiquitination and subsequent proteosomal degradation of target proteins. It probably serves as a molecular bridge in ubiquitin E3 complexes and participates in the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of beta-catenin. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000015171	 The protein encoded by this gene was first identified by its ability to bind the adenovirus E1A protein. The protein localizes to the nucleus. It functions as a transcriptional repressor, and expression of E1A inhibits this repression. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000189108	 The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the interleukin 1 receptor family. This protein is similar to the interleukin 1 accessory proteins, and is most closely related to interleukin 1 receptor accessory protein-like 1 (IL1RAPL1). This gene and IL1RAPL1 are located at a region on chromosome X that is associated with X-linked non-syndromic mental retardation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000166407	 This locus encodes a transcriptional regulator that contains two cysteine-rich LIM domains but lacks a DNA-binding domain. LIM domains may play a role in protein interactions; thus the encoded protein may regulate transcription by competitively binding to specific DNA-binding transcription factors. Alterations at this locus have been associated with acute lymphoblastic T-cell leukemia. Chromosomal rearrangements have been observed between this locus and at least two loci, the delta subunit of the T-cell antigen receptor gene and the LIM domain binding 1 gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]. 
ENSG00000137070	 Interleukin 11 is a stromal cell-derived cytokine that belongs to a family of pleiotropic and redundant cytokines that use the gp130 transducing subunit in their high affinity receptors. This gene encodes the IL-11 receptor, which is a member of the hematopoietic cytokine receptor family. This particular receptor is very similar to ciliary neurotrophic factor, since both contain an extracellular region with a 2-domain structure composed of an immunoglobulin-like domain and a cytokine receptor-like domain. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]. 
ENSG00000165376	 This gene product belongs to the claudin protein family whose members have been identified as major integral membrane proteins localized exclusively at tight junctions. Claudins are expressed in an organ-specific manner and regulate tissue-specific physiologic properties of tight junctions. This protein is expressed in the intestine. Alternatively spliced transcript variants with different 5' untranslated region have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]. 
ENSG00000175294	 Calcium ions play a primary role in the regulation of sperm motility. This gene belongs to a family of putative cation channels that are specific to spermatozoa and localize to the flagellum. The protein family features a single repeat with six membrane-spanning segments and a predicted calcium-selective pore region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000159650	 This gene encodes an enzyme involved in histidine catabolism, metabolizing urocanic acid to formiminoglutamic acid. The gene product is known to protect the skin from ultra violet rays and is contained in human sweat. Deficiency of this gene product in the liver is an apparent cause of mental retardation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]. 
ENSG00000231925	 This gene encodes a transmembrane glycoprotein which mediates interaction between newly assembled major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules and the transporter associated with antigen processing (TAP), which is required for the transport of antigenic peptides across the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. This interaction is essential for optimal peptide loading on the MHC class I molecule. Up to four complexes of MHC class I and this protein may be bound to a single TAP molecule. This protein contains a C-terminal double-lysine motif (KKKAE) known to maintain membrane proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. This gene lies within the major histocompatibility complex on chromosome 6. Alternative splicing results in three transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000178057	 This gene encodes a mitochondrial complex I assembly protein that interacts with complex I subunits. Mutations in this gene cause mitochondrial complex I deficiency, a fatal neonatal disorder of the oxidative phosphorylation system. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]. 
ENSG00000166257	 Voltage-gated sodium channels are transmembrane glycoprotein complexes composed of a large alpha subunit and one or more regulatory beta subunits. They are responsible for the generation and propagation of action potentials in neurons and muscle. This gene encodes one member of the sodium channel beta subunit gene family, and influences the inactivation kinetics of the sodium channel. Two alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000106069	 This gene is a member of the chimerin family and encodes a protein with a phorbol-ester/DAG-type zinc finger, a Rho-GAP domain and an SH2 domain. This protein has GTPase-activating protein activity that is regulated by phospholipid binding and binding of diacylglycerol (DAG) induces translocation of the protein from the cytosol to the Golgi apparatus membrane. The protein plays a role in the proliferation and migration of smooth muscle cells. Decreased expression of this gene is associated with high-grade gliomas and breast tumors, and increased expression of this gene is associated with lymphomas. Mutations in this gene have been associated with schizophrenia in men. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000198625	 This gene encodes a nuclear protein that contains a p53 binding domain at the N-terminus and a RING finger domain at the C-terminus, and shows structural similarity to p53-binding protein MDM2. Both proteins bind the p53 tumor suppressor protein and inhibit its activity, and have been shown to be overexpressed in a variety of human cancers. However, unlike MDM2 which degrades p53, this protein inhibits p53 by binding its transcriptional activation domain. This protein also interacts with MDM2 protein via the RING finger domain, and inhibits the latter's degradation. So this protein can reverse MDM2-targeted degradation of p53, while maintaining suppression of p53 transactivation and apoptotic functions. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000117525	 This gene encodes coagulation factor III which is a cell surface glycoprotein. This factor enables cells to initiate the blood coagulation cascades, and it functions as the high-affinity receptor for the coagulation factor VII. The resulting complex provides a catalytic event that is responsible for initiation of the coagulation protease cascades by specific limited proteolysis. Unlike the other cofactors of these protease cascades, which circulate as nonfunctional precursors, this factor is a potent initiator that is fully functional when expressed on cell surfaces. There are 3 distinct domains of this factor: extracellular, transmembrane, and cytoplasmic. This protein is the only one in the coagulation pathway for which a congenital deficiency has not been described. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000186010	 This gene encodes a subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I), which functions in the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain. The protein is required for complex I assembly and electron transfer activity. The protein binds the signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3) transcription factor, and can function as a tumor suppressor. The human protein purified from mitochondria migrates at approximately 16 kDa. Transcripts originating from an upstream promoter and capable of expressing a protein with a longer N-terminus have been found, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]. 
ENSG00000198569	 This gene encodes a member of SLC34A transporter family of proteins, and is expressed primarily in the kidney. It is involved in transporting phosphate into cells via sodium cotransport in the renal brush border membrane, and contributes to the maintenance of inorganic phosphate concentration in the kidney. Mutations in this gene are associated with hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants varying in the 5' UTR have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]. 
ENSG00000113249	 The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane receptor for both human hepatitis A virus (HHAV) and TIMD4. The encoded protein may be involved in the moderation of asthma and allergic diseases. The reference genome represents an allele that retains a MTTVP amino acid segment that confers protection against atopy in HHAV seropositive individuals. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000204406	 This gene encodes a member of the methyl-CpG-binding domain (MBD) family. The MBD consists of about 70 residues and is the minimal region required for a methyl-CpG-binding protein binding specifically to methylated DNA. In addition to the MBD domain, this protein contains a PWWP domain (Pro-Trp-Trp-Pro motif), which consists of 100-150 amino acids and is found in numerous proteins that are involved in cell division, growth and differentiation. Mutations in this gene cause mental retardation autosomal dominant type 1. Haploinsufficiency of this gene is associated with a syndrome involving microcephaly, intellectual disabilities, severe speech impairment, and seizures. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but their full-length nature is not determined. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
ENSG00000160691	 This gene encodes three main isoforms that differ in activities and subcellular location. While all three are adapter proteins in signal transduction pathways, the longest (p66Shc) may be involved in regulating life span and the effects of reactive oxygen species. The other two isoforms, p52Shc and p46Shc, link activated receptor tyrosine kinases to the Ras pathway by recruitment of the GRB2/SOS complex. p66Shc is not involved in Ras activation. Unlike the other two isoforms, p46Shc is targeted to the mitochondrial matrix. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000123096	 This gene encodes a member of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC). The DGC spans the sarcolemma and is comprised of dystrophin, syntrophin, alpha- and beta-dystroglycans and sarcoglycans. The DGC provides a structural link between the subsarcolemmal cytoskeleton and the extracellular matrix of muscle cells. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]. 
ENSG00000137309	 This gene encodes a non-histone protein involved in many cellular processes, including regulation of inducible gene transcription, integration of retroviruses into chromosomes, and the metastatic progression of cancer cells. The encoded protein preferentially binds to the minor groove of A+T-rich regions in double-stranded DNA. It has little secondary structure in solution but assumes distinct conformations when bound to substrates such as DNA or other proteins. The encoded protein is frequently acetylated and is found in the nucleus. At least seven transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000137496	 The protein encoded by this gene functions as an inhibitor of the proinflammatory cytokine, IL18. It binds IL18, prevents the binding of IL18 to its receptor, and thus inhibits IL18-induced IFN-gamma production, resulting in reduced T-helper type 1 immune responses. This protein is constitutively expressed and secreted in mononuclear cells. Elevated level of this protein is detected in the intestinal tissues of patients with Crohn's disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000233608	 Basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors have been implicated in cell lineage determination and differentiation. The protein encoded by this gene is a bHLH transcription factor and shares similarity with another bHLH transcription factor, Twist. It is thought that during osteoblast development this protein may inhibit osteoblast maturation and maintain cells in a preosteoblast phenotype. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]. 
ENSG00000142089	 The protein encoded by this gene is an interferon-induced membrane protein that helps confer immunity to influenza A H1N1 virus, West Nile virus, and dengue virus. Two transcript variants, only one of them protein-coding, have been found for this gene. Another variant encoding an N-terminally truncated isoform has been reported, but the full-length nature of this variant has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000221986	 This gene encodes a protein with two immunoglobulin superfamily domains and a fibronectin 3 domain. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000085491	 This gene encodes a carrier protein that transports ATP-Mg exchanging it for phosphate. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000232810	 This gene encodes a multifunctional proinflammatory cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily. This cytokine is mainly secreted by macrophages. It can bind to, and thus functions through its receptors TNFRSF1A/TNFR1 and TNFRSF1B/TNFBR. This cytokine is involved in the regulation of a wide spectrum of biological processes including cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, lipid metabolism, and coagulation. This cytokine has been implicated in a variety of diseases, including autoimmune diseases, insulin resistance, and cancer. Knockout studies in mice also suggested the neuroprotective function of this cytokine. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000167646	 The protein encoded by this gene is required for the assembly of axonemal inner and outer dynein arms and plays a role in assembling dynein complexes for transport into cilia. Defects in this gene are a cause of primary ciliary dyskinesia type 2 (CILD2). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]. 
ENSG00000102539	 Motilin is a 22 amino acid peptide hormone expressed throughout the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. The protein encoded by this gene is a motilin receptor which is a member of the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. This member is a multi-pass transmembrane protein, and is an important therapeutic target for the treatment of hypomotility disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000122966	 This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that functions in cell division. Together with the kinesin KIF14, this protein localizes to the central spindle and midbody, and functions to promote efficient cytokinesis. This protein is involved in central nervous system development. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with bipolar disorder and risk for schizophrenia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000104885	 The protein encoded by this gene is a histone methyltransferase that methylates lysine-79 of histone H3. It is inactive against free core histones, but shows significant histone methyltransferase activity against nucleosomes. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]. 
ENSG00000147119	 This gene belongs to the sulfotransferase gene family. Sulfotransferases generate sulfated glycosaminoglycan (GAG) moities during chondroitin sulfate biosynthesis. They create considerable structural diversity among chondroitin sulfates by transferring sulfate with remarkable specificity for the underlying oligosaccharide substrate. This gene product mainly transfers sulfate to N-acetylgalactosamine. The regulated expression of each member of this gene family may be an important determinant of sulfated GAGs expression and the associated function of chondroitin sulfates as regulators of many biologic processes. This gene is part of a gene cluster on chromosome Xp11.23. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000163743	 The protein encoded by this gene has ubiquitin ligase activity. It mediates E3-dependent ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of target proteins, including TP53, HDAC1 and CDKN1B, thus regulating their levels and cell cycle progression. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]. 
ENSG00000172845	 This gene belongs to a family of Sp1 related genes that encode transcription factors that regulate transcription by binding to consensus GC- and GT-box regulatory elements in target genes. This protein contains a zinc finger DNA-binding domain and several transactivation domains, and has been reported to function as a bifunctional transcription factor that either stimulates or represses the transcription of numerous genes. Transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene, and one has been reported to initiate translation from a non-AUG (AUA) start codon. Additional isoforms, resulting from the use of alternate downstream translation initiation sites, have also been noted. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 13. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]. 
ENSG00000087916	 This gene encodes a member of the solute carrier family 6. Members of this family are sodium and chloride dependent neurotransmitter transporters. The encoded protein transports both neutral and cationic amino acids. This protein may also function as a beta-alanine carrier. Mutations in this gene may be associated with X-linked obesity. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome X.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]. 
ENSG00000198019	 Three distinct, but closely related classes of receptors that bind the Fc portion of IgG have been identified (Fcgamma RI, II and III). The FcgammaRI family consists of three closely related genes termed A, B, and C. This gene encodes the low affinity FcgammaRIB receptor that may play an important role in humoral immune response. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000153071	 This gene encodes a mitogen-responsive phosphoprotein. It is expressed in normal ovarian epithelial cells, but is down-regulated or absent from ovarian carcinoma cell lines, suggesting its role as a tumor suppressor. This protein binds to the SH3 domains of GRB2, an adaptor protein that couples tyrosine kinase receptors to SOS (a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Ras), via its C-terminal proline-rich sequences, and may thus modulate growth factor/Ras pathways by competing with SOS for binding to GRB2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000157985	 This gene encodes a member of an ADP-ribosylation factor GTPase-activating protein family involved in membrane trafficking and cytoskeleton dynamics. This gene functions as a direct regulator of the adaptor-related protein complex 3 on endosomes. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000140623	 This gene encodes a guanine-nucleotide binding protein and member of the septin family of cytoskeletal GTPases. Septins play important roles in cytokinesis, exocytosis, embryonic development, and membrane dynamics. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]. 
ENSG00000176720	 The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 family, members of which form homo- or heterodimers, and act as anti- or proapoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes. Studies in rat show that this protein has restricted expression in reproductive tissues, interacts strongly with some antiapoptotic BCL2 proteins, not at all with proapoptotic BCL2 proteins, and induces apoptosis in transfected cells. Thus, this protein represents a proapoptotic member of the BCL2 family. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]. 
ENSG00000185024	 This gene encodes one of the three subunits of the RNA polymerase III transcription factor complex. This complex plays a central role in transcription initiation by RNA polymerase III on genes encoding tRNA, 5S rRNA, and other small structural RNAs. The gene product belongs to the TF2B family. Several alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms, that function at different promoters transcribed by RNA polymerase III, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]. 
ENSG00000091879	 The protein encoded by this gene is an antagonist of angiopoietin 1 (ANGPT1) and endothelial TEK tyrosine kinase (TIE-2, TEK). The encoded protein disrupts the vascular remodeling ability of ANGPT1 and may induce endothelial cell apoptosis. Three transcript variants encoding three different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000054267	 This gene encodes a protein with sequence similarity to retinoblastoma-binding protein-1. The encoded protein is a subunit of the histone deacetylase-dependant SIN3A transcriptional corepressor complex, which functions in diverse cellular processes including proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, oncogenesis, and cell fate determination. The gene product is recognized by IgG antibody isolated from a breast cancer patient and appears to be a molecular marker associated with a broad range of human malignancies. Alternate transcriptional splice variants encoding different isoforms have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000140379	 This gene encodes a member of the BCL-2 protein family. The proteins of this family form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- and pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities such as embryonic development, homeostasis and tumorigenesis. The protein encoded by this gene is able to reduce the release of pro-apoptotic cytochrome c from mitochondria and block caspase activation. This gene is a direct transcription target of NF-kappa B in response to inflammatory mediators, and is up-regulated by different extracellular signals, such as granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), CD40, phorbol ester and inflammatory cytokine TNF and IL-1, which suggests a cytoprotective function that is essential for lymphocyte activation as well as cell survival. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000070423	 The protein encoded by this gene contains a RING finger domain, a motif present in a variety of functionally distinct proteins and known to be involved in protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]. 
ENSG00000101911	 This gene encodes a phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate synthetase that plays a central role in the synthesis of purines and pyrimidines. The encoded protein catalyzes the synthesis of 5-phosphoribosyl 1-pyrophosphate from ATP and D-ribose 5-phosphate. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]. 
